 Excuse me. We need to start with the oath. Would you please swear in the witness?
 Ms. Howe and gentlemen, if you would please stand and repeat after me.
 I do hereby affirm. I do hereby affirm.
 That I will tell the truth. That I will tell the truth.
 And nothing but the truth. And nothing but the truth.
 To this committee today.
 To this committee today.
 Thank you.
 Yes, and this is what's been -- well, this is, as I understand it, the truth embargo
 panel. Is that a fair statement of this panel?
 Yes.
 Great. And a film, as I understand it?
 Yes.
 Yes. Well, as we get older and older, I'm 77 right now. You can't live forever, you
 know. So if this procedure I'm going to have to clean the blood doesn't work, then I've
 got probably a few more months to make it before my kidneys shut down. So that's kind
 of why I'm kind of going along with the interview at this time.
 You're seeing that what you went through is just too important for people not to know
 about.
 Yeah.
 Can you just -- can we start at the beginning with your military career and just walk through
 what exactly your experiences were?
 I was drafted into the military and got into the U.S. Army. After that, I was sent to the
 Signal Training Center in eastern United States.
 What year would this be?
 1958. I went through the signal training course. And at that time, I went through the radio
 tele-type course and also the cryptography course, Crypto. They had five instructors
 that were getting out of military service, so they pulled the top five students. And
 I was third in the class, so I got pulled as an instructor.
 Now, were you at this time also working yet for CIA?
 No.
 Not yet?
 No. After one day, my boss came to me and he said, "How would you like to, you know,
 make some extra money?" And I said, "Well, money is good." So he explained to me that
 I could -- he could put it through, like, would have to get a top secret White House
 cue clearance for the job, you know. And I thought, boy, must be a pretty exclusive thing,
 you know. And I said, "Well, what is this?" And he said that I'm director for the CIA
 for eastern United States, you know. And I said, "Oh, I didn't know that." And he said,
 "You weren't supposed to."
 After about six weeks, my security clearance came through, and I got my CIA card. It was
 an ID card, like a credit card, where I could just go up to the door and slice it, walk
 right in. And my name at that time, I used an artificial name, too. Never used my real
 name. I started working with him on the project he was on. And that was Project Blue Book,
 which was kind of partially a fraud.
 You're saying some of the Blue Book cases were completely fictitious?
 Yes. But the cases that we got came from, I think it was Fort Belleville, Maryland.
 Fort Belvoir?
 Yeah. And it didn't come from the Pentagon, or it didn't come from CIA headquarters. But
 we would get reports about a certain sighting that they had in Mexico or Italy or something
 like that. And then we had people that would follow through on it, that would go out and
 interview the people to see if they were not cases, or if it was real, you know.
 So you'd be going overseas frequently?
 I wasn't, but I always stayed statewide. But the people we had working with us from
 CIA would do that. We would get like a new report probably a couple times a week. I was
 coming into the Army fresh off the farm, you know, so I really didn't have much knowledge
 of anything. But my boss filled me in on Project Blue Book and what they had found so far,
 as far as the Greys and the aliens and the Roswell Incident.
 How did you feel when this first got dumped on you? When you first learned about this?
 I was just kind of overwhelmed with all of this, you know. And I said to him, I don't
 know if I'm going to be able to be a judge of this type of thing. What's real, what's
 not, when I don't have much knowledge of it, you know.
 So what did he say?
 He said, well, we have to build the information as we go and you'll see how this thing is
 working out.
 And then the other thing is, of course, you really weren't able to tell family or close
 friends, obviously.
 No, I couldn't tell anybody. In fact, I had to take a vow that I wouldn't tell anybody,
 a lot of it for 40 years and more of it for 50 years, which is up in 2010.
 You're doing all this crypto work. You're looking at images, photographs, video. It's
 1958, maybe the fall of '58. What happened after this?
 At that time, the Project Blue Book thing kind of went pot, you know. If you remember,
 back in those days, they kind of declared it as a nothing, you know.
 And they were telling the world, all UFOs are misidentifications, hoaxes, psychological
 issues, whatever.
 Yes. So my boss came to me and he says, we've both got a new assignment. And he says, oh,
 I said, where are we going? Oh, he says, we're going to the Capitol. We're going to be part
 of the Eisenhower push. He's trying to find out something about, all about these aliens
 that MJ-12 was supposed to find out, but never sent back reports to him.
 The MJ-12, the UFO control group, were they calling it MJ-12 at that time?
 Yes.
 They called us in, went into the Oval Office, and President Eisenhower was there in Nixon,
 and they said, we called the people in from MJ-12, from Area 51 and S-4, but they told
 us that the government had no jurisdiction over what they were doing. So being a general,
 past general, you didn't tell them to go to hell without any real good reason, you know.
 So he said, I want you and your boss to fly out there. I want you to give them a personal
 message. He says, I want you to tell them, whoever is in charge, tell them that to get
 in, they have this week, coming week, to get into Washington and to report to me. And if
 they don't, I'm going to get the 1st Army from Colorado, and we're going to go over,
 we're going to take the base over, I don't care what kind of classified material you
 got, we're going to rip this thing apart.
 Eisenhower was going to invade Area 51, yeah, with the 1st Army.
 So you go out with your superior, you fly out, you land, what happens? Can you describe
 this whole process, what you saw?
 It took us the 13 or 15 miles south to S4, had like different garage door openings. And
 in these garage door openings, they had like different saucer crafts. The very first one
 had the Roswell craft in. It was kind of crashed up, but apparently every alien that was in
 it died except for a couple.
 So you see the Roswell craft, and what are some of the others that you see?
 Well, the Roswell craft was really strange, because it looked like real heavy aluminum
 foil. We could rock next to it, and you could rock, the whole thing probably weighed 150,
 300 pounds.
 Could they tell what the source of power was of this craft?
 Yeah, it was like a river's gravitational thing of some kind. In fact, one, later on,
 I got the mathematical code for recursing gravity in a 3x5 card. I guess there are different
 types of grays and so on.
 How did you see that evidence?
 Well, later on at S4, we viewed the autopsy film. And then the colonel said, "What we've
 got in here is we're interviewing a gray alien."
 All right, right there. How did you feel at that moment?
 Well, I thought, boy, we had no idea we were going to see the real thing. All we saw was
 film.
 You had to have a little bit of heart racing at that moment.
 Yes. My boss was able to go in and had a partial interview with him.
 So what did this gray alien look like? Could you describe him a little bit?
 This one looked a little bit oriental.
 So I'm just wondering, if it looked almost human, what about this didn't look human?
 No, it didn't look human as far as the skin tone and basically the shape of it and the
 size.
 How was its head size compared with a normal human, for example?
 One was kind of a little bit bigger and some of them noses were very, very small and ears
 were just like holes. Mouth was very small.
 Why were they bringing you out here at all anyway to see an alien? What was the point?
 To go back and tell the president they actually had one.
 So he did not know at this point if there was an alien at S4.
 What did you do then? Were you done or did you have other things to do at S4?
 Yes, basically we were kind of done. We went back to Area 51. They took us into the main
 building and there we saw a U-2 which of course we didn't know existed and a model of the
 SR-71.
 The Blackbird.
 But like I mentioned earlier, it was not a model of the current Blackbird, but an early
 version.
 Did you go directly to Washington after this or did you go somewhere else? Did you fly
 regular airline?
 We flew back to the commuter plane, back to the air base and then took President Eisenhower's
 Lockheed Electra back to Washington.
 You and your supervisor, superior officer, and now you're meeting with the president?
 Yes.
 We met with him in the second story of the old OSS warehouse building. Eisenhower and
 Nixon were there and also Hoover was there. So he asked us what was going on and we told
 him about the alien and the whole situation and the black projects and so on. He was just
 totally shocked. He appeared for the first time to be worried, like he was worried.
 I would think that Eisenhower would, I mean he certainly knew that flying saucers were
 real.
 Yes.
 They were aliens. So I guess I'm just wondering what would he have been really surprised about?
 Surprised about the black programs. Eisenhower said, "I've got to keep this thing completely
 secret. I can't talk about this."
 Your actual name, the name you grew up with, that was a different name than what you had
 in the...
 I never used it in the CIA at all.
 Now what about today? You're going on the public record and this is still sensitive
 information even though earlier you talked about security oaths that maybe expire after
 a certain period of time.
 50 years.
 But you're still concerned.
 I had a Linda Motenhouse phone call. Her phone was tapped and they got my phone number and
 through the telephone company they were able to find me and so on.
 When they found you, what happened?
 I was going to a grocery store. Two guys in black suits came out of a black Lincoln town
 car and came over to see me and they told me that I better not publish anything or talk
 to Linda about any more things. So at that time, I did. I stopped.
 That was enough to intimidate you.
 I'd rather remain anonymous. Never show my face on anything.
 Really thank you for doing this.
 Yes. This was, I guess, kind of a good idea because I feel much better having talked about
 it. I kind of feel like there's a load off my shoulders.
 Really?
 Yes. Because I had an awful lot of secrets that I had kept over the years.
 I'd like to now hear from Linda Motenhouse. Go ahead. You've got 10 minutes.
 In the summer of 1994, I spent three days and three nights in that gentleman's home.
 No one on the planet knew where I was, not my family, not anyone.
 I recorded 11 90-minute audiotapes with him. I knew that I was in the presence of somebody
 who was telling the truth to the best of his ability and that the military cover of levels
 of intelligence in this country has been used for a very long time. On the surface, he was
 a cryptologist working in the United States Army, but as he described in the film, he
 took on a role, highly classified, working for the CIA, and his boss was reporting to
 Langley from reports that were coming into Fort Belvoir. He described to me in great
 detail the autopsy footage that he had seen of nonhumans describing the unusual brains
 and the unusual internal organs, and the fact that they were screening film disguised as
 being on a southeastern military base, and that the film that they were screening on
 a regular basis was coming from around the world. He had seen film from Italy in which
 nonhumans were outside of a craft, and the film had been taken from a nearby peak in
 a mountain. He talked about Area 51 from his first-hand experience of being there on the
 other side of what would be a one-way mirror while his boss from Langley was inside with
 a nonhuman, and that he himself had seen some of the craft, like a museum that's inside
 of Papoose Mountain. After those three days and three nights where no one knew where I was,
 I left to do something that would be normal in the normal nine-to-five world, and when
 I returned to my home then in Philadelphia, I remember going to the phone and voicemail,
 and the last thing that we had agreed upon was that I would return in approximately four
 weeks with a video crew in which I was preparing a statement for him and for me to sign that
 I would do a videotape interview like my 11 audio tapes, and I would hold it until after
 his death. He thought that he was not going to live very long in '94. So I was surprised
 to hear his voice on my voicemail say, "Linda, my wife and I went to the supermarket after
 you left, and two men were leaning against our car when we came out of the supermarket,
 and they said, 'We want to remind you that you have been a loyal American, and we are
 here to tell you that you are never to talk with Linda Moulton Howe again or to discuss
 this subject.'" None of those 11 hours of my audio tapes would have been in the phone
 calls, so it means that they were listening to our three days and three nights in the
 house, and I promised him from that point on that I would never discuss him or the material,
 and in fact, later on, I received information from someone unknown that he was dead. So
 I am personally gratified to see that he made a statement today for this citizen hearing
 because he is scratching the surface of how complex this is and how military and intel
 people have been intimidated for not only their whole careers but their whole lives.
 To never tell the truth about something so fundamental as we are not alone in this universe,
 that nonhumans have been interacting with this planet for millennia, and you have just
 heard from one of the firsthand. I had placed before you a prepared statement concerning
 truth embargo and a whole other experience that I had in Kirtland Air Force Base in 1983
 that would have been a decade before being able to talk with this man. I hope that you
 will read it in its entirety. I know I don't have time this morning to go through it, but
 I can summarize that blocking truth, that we're calling the truth embargo, has been
 the intent of the American government's official policy of denial since 1947 when the President
 Truman administration decided that all information about nonhuman intelligences interacting with
 this planet should be kept from the public and media, and that includes Congress and
 the Supreme Court and all machinery of our government except for those designated as
 having "a need to know" and the pro words and the numbers that have gone with the few
 people who have had total access in MJ-12. I encountered truth embargoes repeatedly as
 I investigated the bloodless, trackless animal mutilations in Colorado and the surrounding
 region from my TV documentary special, A Strange Harvest, beginning in September of 1979, and
 I have provided for you a letter from United States Senator Harrison Schmidt, dated March
 14, 1979. It is attached to my statement. It was a letter that Apollo astronaut and
 then US Senator Harrison Schmidt of New Mexico had sent to constituents announcing a conference
 in Albuquerque to be held on April 20, 1979 to discuss the ongoing persistent problem
 of animal mutilations, and he wanted the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation
 to investigate. And that 1979 meeting was held, and five months later in September 1979
 as Director of Special Projects at the CBS station in Denver, I began what became a nine-month,
 18-hour-a-day, seven-days-a-week investigation. And I went to Santa Fe, and I did an interview
 with Senator Schmidt and one of the most important things that he told me was, to my question,
 are you aware of any intelligence committee or any agency that you have communicated with
 who has told you that we are dealing with extraterrestrial biological entities as perpetrators
 of worldwide animal mutilations as law enforcement repeatedly had told me? And I remember the
 pause and the look on his face when he said no, and I remember that his next words were,
 but I am not surprised at your question or the implications. And his request as a United
 States Senator to have the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation formally
 investigate animal mutilations was blocked. He told me that firsthand. The rest of the
 pages of the statement that I have submitted to you occurred after I was contracted with
 Home Box Office on March 21, 1983, to do an hour special that would follow up a strange
 harvest about the animal mutilations, and they had a working title in the contract that
 I would produce for them, an hour special called UFOs the ET Factor. And at the time,
 there was an attorney in New York named Peter Gersten. He was the first attorney to file
 against the CIA, the NSA, National Reconnaissance Organization, the Defense Intelligence Agency,
 and other military agencies under the brand new Freedom of Information Act FOIA for documents
 that those agencies had. And what Peter Gersten found was initially the Central Intelligence
 Agency denied that it had any information or documents, but that the National Security
 Agency had 118. So he would send the Central Intelligence Agency's formal letter to the
 National Security Agency asking for the documents referenced by the CIA. And the National Security
 Agency would send him a formal letter referencing the fact that the Central Intelligence Agency
 had 35 documents shared with the National Security Agency. And eventually, he assembled
 dozens of documents that came from those agencies, each one pointing a finger at the other. It
 went to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court denied to hear what essentially was
 a New York attorney representing citizens against UFO secrecy and what was called ground
 saucer watch under the first Freedom of Information Act, simply asking for information from our
 government about documents that they all said they had. And even though the Supreme Court
 denied that they would take on that lawsuit, out of it came many pages of blacked out information
 that has been held up by Stanton Friedman and others of us over the years that agencies
 who are not allowed to speak and who have been responsible for counterintelligence since
 World War II to convince us that there's nothing to this phenomena. The witness has about one
 minute remaining. They are the very agencies who have the information and have been interlinked
 with Majestic 12 that was appointed by President Harry S. Truman within a very short period
 of time after the crash retrievals in July of 1947 and that Majestic 12, MJ12, whatever
 the letters and numbers are in 2013, the same kind of inner sanctum agency still exists
 interacting with other inside inner sanctum black agencies. There is a parallel black
 budget. There's a parallel government. And this is how the truth that this gentleman
 described and that many people in our government have known since at least 1941 when there
 was another crash retrieval from Missouri and an instrument called a Neutronic Propulsion
 Unit was hand delivered to Oppenheimer for his use in developing and researching what
 became the atomic bomb. And finally, the truth embargo so that you would have reference to
 the two agencies that in the beginning had the most information, the Atomic Energy Commission
 and the Department of the Navy, all of those documents of all of the truth that he has
 said that I have tried to report about now for 33 years, they are essentially off limits
 to any access by Congress or even the President because they are classified as only under
 a need to know and probably Suitland, Maryland archive has them.
 This is time. Thank you. I would like to now the panel will hear from Richard Dolan. You
 have ten minutes. Greetings, honored members of the committee.
 I'm very pleased about the interview that everyone was just shown and grateful that
 Linda Moulton Howe was able to elaborate on that. I'm happy to discuss this also if the
 committee members have questions but I have a different angle of approach this time. The
 truth embargo as I see it, as I understand it, let's call it a big picture analysis.
 I would start by saying one of the striking things about UFOs is simply the discrepancy
 between the quantity of astonishing sightings we have on the one hand and the lack of responsible
 treatment of this by our major media, also our academic and our scientific institutions
 and indeed our political system. This is a shame because there's very good research
 that's being done every day. Many of those researchers have been here this week. Others
 are out there too such as the National Aviation Reporting Center on anomalous phenomena, NARCAP,
 which was referenced in the previous panel by Jim Carant. They collect and analyze encounters
 that the aviation industry has had with unknown objects. There are thousands of such cases.
 Another group is Project 1947, which has documented UFO phenomena during the early Cold War years.
 There are outstanding web search websites such as ufoevidence.org. There are also many
 excellent research groups in Europe and elsewhere in the world. None of them get any love from
 America's dum-dum media, which prefers to lump the whole subject into a big tinfoil
 hat and instead write about the latest escapades of Kim Kardashian. This is a symptom. It's
 a symptom of a deeper problem. To understand why there is a truth embargo, we need to come
 to terms with the fact that America's major media groups lost their independence a long
 time ago. We all know about media consolidation. We all know about the intimate relationships
 that have existed for years between the elite members in the corporate media empire and
 the political leadership and particularly with the military and intelligence community.
 Last year, one example only, it was learned that the Pentagon spends some $4 billion a
 year to sway public opinion. Now, aside from asking just why Americans ought to be paying
 their own government to brainwash them, I mean, talk about getting shafted both ways,
 right? This is just one facet of many that highlight a revolving door through which passes
 the military industrial complex, the media, the academic community and more. National
 security money, which is our nation's greatest and most egregious waste of all, has infiltrated
 everything and that certainly means the once-upon-a-time integrity of our journalists and media corporations.
 This is repugnant to any freedom-loving people. But those individuals benefiting from this
 system are not freedom-loving unless they mean their own freedom. The bottom line is
 that because UFOs are a definite matter of national security, those national security
 decision-makers have made it certain that this subject remains out of sight as much
 as possible. Is this not obvious by now? Now, why would they do this? Well, many reasons.
 Let's touch on the matter of oil because even a child can understand that these objects
 don't need oil to go from point A to point B. Whatever powers, flying saucers, it's
 something different, something better. So if the President were to announce the reality
 of these things, how long do you think it would take before scientists openly begin
 to study the nature of the propulsion and power system of UFOs? This would immediately
 challenge oil, not simply as the world's leading source of power, but it would severely threaten
 the entire global financial system, which is based upon oil. And probably 90 percent
 of the value of any product you can think of is determined by the energy that went into
 making and transporting it, and in most cases that means oil. To say nothing of the millions
 of jobs that rely on the petroleum industry. We're talking one big overhaul of everything
 that matters in the global economy. Can we think for an instant that those individuals
 in the know haven't thought about this? Especially if there is that holy grail involved, some
 form of free energy. What if this new form of energy can't be easily monetized? What
 if? Could the global financial structure afford free energy? A perverse question to be sure,
 but one that has to be important to those individuals at the top of the human power
 structure. And of course there is the political nightmare. Any announcement of this reality
 would come at the cost of worldwide public anger. No one wants to learn that they've
 been lied to for an entire human lifetime. They would want to know just how this secret
 was kept. That's very, very big key right there. That would lead inevitably to questions
 about why Congress was kept out of the loop, why our major institutions missed the boat,
 and just who has been managing the secret. And that would lead, obviously, to a wholesale
 investigation of black budget America shining sunlight into a very dark place. And what
 might we find? Well, consider. Just consider that Roswell was indeed what the researchers
 here two days ago discussed so eloquently and cogently, that it was the retrieval of
 alien technology and perhaps bodies. In fact, there are a number of well-researched UFO
 crash events. So suppose for a moment that it happened. That would mean that the cover-up
 involves much more than mere knowledge of other beings here on planet Earth. It would
 mean there is possession of such advanced technology as to be nearly incomprehensible
 at least at first. Hard to consider, and yet an inevitable conclusion. So what happens
 when teams of brilliant scientists with total secrecy and nearly limitless black budget
 funds are able to study recovered alien technology for many years and even decades? Could it
 not be that given enough time and effort, even if they couldn't replicate what they
 found, they might have learned a few things. Some such claims have been made, and it's
 reasonable to suppose that breakthroughs would have been made. Breakthroughs such as solid
 state electronics, fiber optics, high tensile fibers, lasers, and an array of other money-making
 opportunities for the defense and other industries. None of this has been proven, but it is also
 true that the private research undertaken in classified environments is not easy for
 outside researchers to observe. In fact, it would be very easy to hide the Roswell connection
 in the historical treatment of these and other technologies. Another relevant consideration
 of such breakthroughs is that they would reduce to zero any incentive to reveal the secret
 to the public. Why give up the goose that lays golden eggs? But now matters become even
 more interesting, because what if some of the breakthroughs were even more significant?
 What if they included secrets to what is known as field propulsion or electro-gravitics?
 What if they led to a new source of energy, something that could replace petroleum? To
 those managing these special access programs, they could never allow such breakthroughs
 to see the light of day. Of course, those scientists doing the research would need to
 continue and learn everything they could about electro-gravitics, anti-gravity, new sources
 of energy, and any related topics. Consider also what happens when such breakthroughs
 become classified. We know it happens all too frequently that public science has become
 hostage to national security. What we're looking at is a situation in which the classified
 black-budget world, at least part of it, has gone so far ahead of the rest of us, we may
 with justice almost look upon them as a separate society, something I have sometimes called
 a breakaway civilization. How far ahead might some of that classified world be? Those of
 us on the outside trying to peek in can only make educated guesses or investigate occasional
 leaks. My own conclusion, at least for now, is that they are very far ahead indeed, with
 the ability even to enter and leave Earth orbit with much greater ease than people suspect,
 perhaps a clandestine space fleet, most likely a significant built infrastructure, a large
 portion of which is deep underground, and even, why not, possible encounters with non-human
 intelligences? Why would that be so impossible? To what extent would such a group even answer
 to the President of the United States? Do they rather answer to private, international
 financial powers, which basically is how the whole world already operates? I had a long
 conversation once with a retired senior intelligence official. He had given briefings to-
 I hate to interrupt. The witness has about one minute, at least one.
 One minute left, thank you. This gentleman had given briefings to President Reagan. This
 man knows a very great deal about UFOs and told me that he had spoken to 18 former presidents,
 CIA directors, and DOD secretaries about UFOs after their retirement. Their attitudes fell
 into three categories. One group, roughly three or four of them, said essentially, "What's
 wrong with you? Why waste your time with that nonsense?" Another equally small group made
 it clear that they had been briefed on the matter and knew that it was serious. But the
 largest group, at least half of all of the individuals who had been at the pinnacle of
 power, had said, "You know about UFOs? I would love to know about that, but got nowhere.
 Can you share what you know?" In other words, our top political leadership, with a few exceptions,
 is locked out of this subject because they come and go. But the program managers are
 lifers. They seem to answer to someone else. Recall the words of the late Senator Daniel
 Inouye from 1987, "There exists a shadowy government with its own Air Force, its own
 Navy, its own fundraising mechanism, and the ability to pursue its own ideas of national
 interests, free from all checks and balances, and free from the law itself." He was on to
 something.
 Thank you. You are, the last two witnesses have been particularly good at keeping it
 right within the time limit. We sure appreciate that. Jeffrey Torres, you've got 10 minutes.
 My pleasure. Well, good day to everybody. My name is Jeffrey Torres. I'm not going to
 talk about myself much. I'm a veteran. I served the United States Air Force. I'm talking here
 today about my father. I'm the son of Major Milton John Torres. My father served in the
 U.S. Air Force from 1951 to 1971, and regrettably, my father cannot attend this hearing as he
 is now suffering from ill health directly related to combat from the Vietnam War. I
 told him before I left that I was coming on his behalf, and he expressed his deep gratitude
 that I was coming here today to testify and tell you folks his story. First of all, I
 would like to give you a brief history of who my father was and his accomplishments.
 Dad earned a bachelor's degree in general engineering with a minor in chemistry, and
 completed his master's degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Oklahoma
 in 1961. His military career was spent over the span of 20 years. Dad served as a fighter
 pilot, flying the F-86D, and according to him, the best airplane ever made, as well
 as the F-100. He was a decorated pilot, achieving the title of USAF command pilot. Dad flew
 over 300 combat missions in Vietnam as a forward air controller in Vietnam. He received 13
 air medals, including the Distinguished Flying Cross, and I know firsthand that he was even
 put in for the Air Force Cross, which he denied because of political reasons, which we'll
 not get into here. My father attained a rank of major, as well as during his career he
 also worked with NASA as a chief of range control for the Gemini and Apollo Moon missions.
 After Dad retired from the United States Air Force, Dad worked for Pan Am as an engineer,
 and later acquired his doctorate in mechanical engineering from the University of Miami.
 My father's last job was as a professor at Florida National University teaching engineering.
 During his tenure at FIU, he invented a chemical encoding process using a polymer to prevent
 catastrophic metal fatigue on aircraft and received a patent for that process. Dad retired
 from FIU in 2004. So now we'll go on to Dad's story and the event that happened. I will
 go into some details he shared with our family, but before I do, I want to point out something
 here. That my father, he kept his secret for over 50 years. He never told anyone and he
 honored his oath to this country. And he never had the chance to tell his story to my grandfather,
 his father who he loved very, very much. And I've never seen my father cry until this story
 broke. Sadly, my father kept it all from everyone, including us and my family. Not even telling
 his father's story when he was the closest man that he ever had. I know Dad would never
 have discussed this event if not for it being declassified by the Minister of Defense, Nick
 Pope, out of the UK. After the event was declassified, Dad shared the story often with us. It was
 May 20th, 1957. Dad was stationed at RAF Manston, England. Dad was working on intercept standby.
 Of course, this was a cycle between the pilots in this particular event. It was Dad's turn.
 Dad was again flying the F-86D. This aircraft was a D model, which meant it was an all-weather
 fighter. Dad told me that the RAF Manston was a main intercept squadron during the Cold
 War in England. Dad was on alert with his wingman and some of the ground crew in the
 ready room. That night was a typical English night with the weather being poor and foggy.
 The notification came down from the ready room indicating a scramble. Dad ran for his
 plane. The scramble was initiated. Dad jumped in his cockpit. If you could please, I put
 the photo of Dad's aircraft, if anybody would like to see the airplane. I have one saved
 on there. Anyhow, so he jumped in his cockpit upon getting the authentication code to fire.
 He then realized that this was no drill. They normally would never give you an authentication
 code, and they told him it was a hot mission. He had orders to shoot this thing down. Dad
 told me whatever this thing was, they wanted it down, and he thought he was starting World
 War III. All kinds of thoughts were in his head. The intercept controller ordered Dad
 to fire a full salvo of 24 rockets at this object. Dad later told me that he knew full
 well how serious this event was. Dad was in his aircraft. His aircraft came to life, and
 he was given an order to go gate, which meant full afterburners were to be used after getting
 airborne. Dad said, "Do you want me to continue with the afterburners? Affirmative. Go gate."
 In other words, they wanted him to close in on this thing, and they wanted him there fast.
 Dad was told to vector over to the North Sea. The object had been sighted hovering over
 East Ipswich. Dad told me he had a confirmation of the target acquisition from the ground
 radar. His jet flying with full afterburners was now headed towards the North Sea, and
 Dad was flying at 32,000 feet, and full afterburner and heavy cloud cover with zero visibility.
 However, his radar was painting a target as big as an aircraft carrier at that altitude.
 Dad was fast approaching the target, and the object kept pulling in front of him just beyond
 range. It was toying with him. Finally, he was able to get his radar lock on the object.
 Dad said this thing was huge, and the blip was so big that it was easy to get target
 acquisition. Right before he got the instruction to fire from the radar control set, the target
 made an erratic side-to-side movement and moved beyond range, causing Dad to lose lock
 on his target. The object then accelerated from zero to Mach 10 in seconds, and Dad was
 unable to fire as a result. He lost complete lock. Dad told me his radar, his wingman's
 radar and the ground radar confirmed it as well. They had lost lock, and they were totally
 perplexed as to what happened. So, to make a long story short, the most compelling thing
 Dad said was that this thing was doing things that an ordinary aircraft could do. It was
 defying the laws of physics, and he was convinced that it was of alien origin. Anyhow, during
 that time, there was nothing in the Air Force that could come close to it. The F-86 could
 barely make Mach .98 Mach. It would make Mach 1 in its complete dive at the time, and this
 thing did Mach 10. There was no known aircraft that could do this. So, upon landing his aircraft,
 Dad was contacted by the intercept officer on a secure phone. The person on the line
 told him that what happened was considered classified, and not to discuss this with anyone,
 from his wingman to his commander. He would be debriefed in the morning. Dad told me he
 realized how lucky he was, as if he did manage to fire at this object, he probably would
 have vaporized him. Off the record, he was scared shitless. So, he did tell me that the
 following day, Dad reported for duty, a call came in from a man that was from the NSA,
 and that he called him a spook. For us, it was much more personal, this whole event,
 because the spook came in, and swore Dad to secrecy that he would never, ever repeat what
 he'd seen, and it was a matter of national security. The guy showed his credentials,
 he locked himself in a room with Dad for about a half hour, and threatened to pull his wings,
 and everything else that he held dear, including, you know, God knows his family.
 The witness has about one more minute. Okay, I'll make it short. You know, my Dad
 waited 40 years for this, and forgive me. I'll make it quick here. You know, guys like
 my Dad are heroes. Guys like Edgar Mitchell. When I was a kid, I watched these guys from
 the side of the beach watching the Apollo moon launches, and now we're riding with
 the Russians to the moon now. We can't even go ourselves anymore. And yet, the media has
 blasphemized these great men. You know, how can they? How dare them? How dare them, and
 how dare everybody stay silent here? When people like my Dad held this secret, people
 who died and that never could tell a secret in Vietnam. It's a shame. It's a real shame
 that our media has bought and paid for by the Kardashians and the corporate industries
 of this country and the world. And this truth needs to come out because there's a lot of
 people, including my family, who suffered and ridiculed. My father got ridiculed, my
 brother took phone calls from ridiculing people, and my Dad had a Ph.D. What more do they want?
 Astrophysicists are saying these things are real and we're being ridiculed. That's all
 I have to say. Help this country. [Applause]
 Okay, we need to get going. I want to thank the panel very much and indicate to the members
 that we've got six minutes each for questioning. I will reserve my minutes and we'll reverse
 the order a bit here, so we're to Senator Grovel. Linda, would you, when this gentleman
 that was interviewed, and this would go to Richard also, when he was talking about that
 he saw an extraterrestrial being, was it dead or alive? So we had imprisoned this person
 or this being. Could you elaborate a little bit about that?
 Many more than one. We have had many more than one. In this particular case, this was
 at Area 51 inside of the Papoose Mountain. If you look at a map, the inside of the Papoose
 Mountain at Area 51 is an installation, multi-leveled, hidden by the Papoose Mountain. Many people
 have leaked to me and to others about working there. And in there are offices, as we would
 recognize as offices, and his CIA boss and the man in the film and a couple of others
 were taken to one of these offices where there was a one way on the other side. I don't know
 because it's his point of view. Was it a mirror or was it a reflective glass, but nevertheless,
 the man you just heard was standing on this side of the glass looking at his boss in the
 room with, I believe it was two others. And then the gray alien was dressed in something
 like they had tried to make it look sort of American. It had on a t-shirt and as if they
 had put clothes on it right at the last minute for this meeting. And it was telepathic and
 each mind in the room was communicated with telepathically. And he had a discussion later
 on with his boss. And the general impression was that the non-human was trying to answer
 their questions, but that it was very succinct and that they ask questions such as how many
 of you are here on this planet? There would be no answer. There would be other questions
 that were of a technical nature and there would be no answer. And yet, on other questions,
 they all clearly heard telepathic information.
 >> Elaborate on telepathic information.
 >> Mind to mind.
 >> Mind to mind.
 >> I would just add, I recall the witness speaking about that and certainly it's exactly
 right, Linda, what he said to me. In terms of the one, very few specific answers this
 being allegedly gave, but to one, why are they here? There was not a direct answer except
 a reply that we are not hostile or thoughts to that effect.
 >> When you say telepathic, that means that the being was communicating directly, understood
 the way our mind worked. Now, were we able to telepathically communicate with them or
 was it a one way street?
 >> I can add something here along those lines. And then humans by definition live in a mental
 island. And we're dealing with intelligences that not only can place thoughts, images,
 movies, symbols, directly into human minds very easily, they simultaneously upload information
 from human minds. And I have had the experience of talking with a man who was working for
 the Central Intelligence Agency when he had an interaction with one of these beings. There
 have been many, sir. And that his whole mission was to have the experience of the upload download
 telepathically with a being under a completely nonthreatening, totally organized fashion.
 And he told me that they had warned him that the process of the telepathic download upload
 usually disables humans, humans usually faint. And that he had the experience and the way
 he described it was he said, Linda, imagine seven feature films going through your mind
 at the same time with heat, temperature, sense, sound, all of the senses and more. And then
 overlying those seven feature films are three-dimensional gold symbols that we would relate probably
 to Sumerian cuneiform or Assyrian symbols. And that all of that goes through your head
 in a matter of what your brain, your human brain, not being able to interact but has
 a sense of very rapid time. And that when it's all over, as he said, if God asked me
 what had been downloaded into my mind, I could not tell you. But I know that everything that
 I have ever lived was uploaded. That is, frankly, the level of telepathic interaction that has
 been going on in this planet for a very long time.
 My time has expired, but maybe later on I'll come back because I have other questions.
 Thank you. We'll go to Representative Hooley. Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair.
 You talked about your father. Thank you very much for doing that. That he had kept the
 secret for years. How or why did he finally communicate the information to you and the
 family? Well, it started much later. He started organizing
 RAF Manson reunions. He so loved his squadron that he organized trips to England and cruises.
 And I met his buddies, by the way, and they were all just the greatest guys, a lot of
 them World War II veterans. And he would organize these trips. And, you know, I guess at this
 point he started trying to find out answers as to why this had happened to him. So he
 was asking his squadron mates. And I guess he felt a little comfortable at that point.
 He had been retired for a number of years. And he ran across Nick Pope and they were
 able to declassify the event. But it took many years after that that it was declassified.
 But he had started to speak about it after the reunions. But he would never speak publicly.
 And you know, as a matter of fact, I had no idea that this had happened, that he had carried
 that burden. And my grandfather and him were extremely tight. And he cried that he couldn't
 tell his own father because of that secret. And he didn't tell his soul. Can you imagine
 dog fighting like this fellow the other day from Peru and yet when he landed, the spooks
 that were there on the ground greeted him and said, hey, let's find out what that was.
 Our spooks told him never talk about it to anybody, including your wife, your kids, your
 family, your colonel, your commander. Nobody could he talk to. Nobody. And he carried that.
 And I can tell you when I saw him cry on stage, my dad has now lost his voice because of,
 you know, Agent Orange and all of the crap that goes with it. But I found mine. I'm my
 father's son. I will get answers. I promised him that. So thank you.
 Mr. Dolan, is there a way to put together people? For example, we've heard a lot over
 the last four and a half days about the number of pilots who have seen other kinds of vehicles
 that are not from the United States or from this world flying. Is there a way to get some
 of these pilots together? Are they willing to talk about what they saw? Do you know?
 Thank you for the question. First of all, I would just repeat the name of the organization
 I mentioned earlier in my statement, NARCAP, which is the National Aviation Reporting Center
 on Anomalous Phenomenon. I mention them because they are very rigorous, very scientific, very
 low key, very nonsensational, and deal precisely with these individuals that you're talking
 about and have done so for decades. There have been a number of cases in which we've
 had pilots go on the record. In fact, there's no lack of very good data and information
 out there. The problem is, unfortunately, that these individuals who are all sober and
 careful and, as you heard in the previous panel, still get ridiculed by the media. They
 get the tinfoil hat placed on them. This is something that none of us have found a way
 to get around that, no matter how rigorous we are. In my own work years ago when I started
 researching this phenomenon, I had this naive idea. Really, I did that. If I just did the
 most rigorous, careful, historical treatment of the phenomenon that I could, then that
 just might be the magic bullet, the bat that hits the ball out of the park. It didn't happen.
 We keep trying. I would say that we're in an era now where global communication among
 researchers has improved and is improving. I am looking forward to, I think, the next
 few years where there really should be better coordination among groups in the United States
 and elsewhere to be able to put together events like this. I think more is better.
 I think with the social media that there's a possibility that you might be able to do
 that. People seem to trust pilots. Rightfully or wrongfully, they trust pilots. They're
 the most logical group who fly all the time. We are back and forth across this country,
 across this world, that as they see what they've seen, it seems to me that there would be some
 validity. I mean, the public would accept that premise if enough of them got together
 and talked about it.
 When you add up enough of the near misses and encounters that are up in the air, it's
 startling.
 I noticed the gentlelady's time has expired.
 Thank you.
 We'll then go to Representative Woolsey. You have six minutes.
 Thank you, Jeffrey Torres, for your testimony.
 Thank you.
 Thank you so much. Congratulations, Richard, for that video.
 Thank you.
 You did such an amazing job. It was so helpful because you didn't leave the witness ever.
 I mean, the gentleman, it was clear that's who he is and that's what he wanted to say.
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you very much.
 Linda, you have said, I think more than once this week, that non-humans are acting within
 our environment. What do you mean by that? And how do you know that's happening? And
 give me some examples.
 Other than being in a space vehicle and coming to Earth. Well, if that's it, tell me that.
 I guess it's the accumulation of so many people that have talked to me off the record, who
 have died.
 Who have died?
 That I was given a chance to talk to people who were in some sort of the end of their
 days and I'd either been sought out or I had been referenced. And when you were talking
 to people who are essentially on their deathbed and they are describing for you the interactions
 that they've had with extraterrestrial biological entities in the context of their professional
 capacity for the United States government, how would I question what they were saying
 to me?
 Can I provide for you right here in this room one of the many different types of extraterrestrial
 biological entities? I cannot. Do I believe that these primarily male individuals who
 have shown to me at least enough evidence about where they worked publicly, which not
 always connects to where they get their paycheck, that they are telling me the truth about their
 life and their experiences with extraterrestrial biological entities, craft, technology, the
 physics that we have been encountering and stunned by?
 I believe them. And I'm a long time TV producer and investigative reporter. And as I have
 said before, the challenge of getting people on the record is the single biggest difficulty
 in this entire field because since World War II, our extremely good and sophisticated counterintelligence
 units that got us through World War II are exactly the people who took over at the request
 of Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Harry Truman. How do you keep all of this evolving from
 the press, the media, Congress, the Supreme Court and every other government agency?
 Yeah, okay. But thank you. Somewhere between now and the end of this day, I'd like somebody
 to describe for me the different nonhumans that have been observed and what the differences
 are and do they intermingle? I think we've not asked that question.
 Well I can give you at least a short answer. Okay.
 One man who retired from the Defense Intelligence Agency who sought me out because of something
 I had published in one of my four books and he had been exposed to it but because everything
 is so compartmentalized on a need to know basis, he came to me as a reporter and it
 goes to the heart of what he said. He said, "My job when I was working for the Defense
 Intelligence Agency was to study and monitor the geopolitical territorial conflicts of
 three extraterrestrial biological entities who have been involved with this planet for
 at least 270 million years." He broke them down as blonde-haired, blue-eyed that we would
 not distinguish from the so-called archangels of history. The second group would be standing
 up reptoids and the third group would be a huge variety of what are called grays.
 Okay. And do they intermingle? Are they all separate?
 They do not get along. They do not get along.
 I would add, if I may, that research has pointed out even a greater variety than this. Depending
 on how you deal with abduction research, there is some of this that's fairly extensive. They
 would talk about insectoid-type creatures. And then let's not forget there are a large
 number of individuals who have had or claim to have, sometimes I think persuasively to
 be honest with you, some form of contact with other beings that is not physical. This is
 a very difficult subject to get one's hand on, but these stories do not go away. Who
 are these beings? Are they good, bad, and different to our fate is another issue we
 can discuss. In terms of interrelationships, you're asking exactly the kind of question
 that many researchers still would like to get to the bottom of.
 Okay. Thank you. Tom, my time is up.
 Yes, thank you. Jeffrey Torres, I was very interested in your testimony. You said something
 and I think I know what you meant, but you didn't exactly say it this way, so I'm going
 to ask you if this is what you meant. It's kind of a yes or no question. You said that
 what your father witnessed in terms of the maneuverability of a particular object defied
 the law of physics. Well, I don't think physics law, as we currently understand it, says that
 you can't move very, very quickly. There's no limit on acceleration or velocity to my
 understanding. Of course, Dr. Bartlett may be able to help us more than I can on that,
 but what I think you meant to say is it defies any technology we know that can achieve those
 kinds of accelerations and motions. Am I correct in understanding that?
 Well, more than that, what he meant was that if there was a fighter pilot in that other
 aircraft, he would have died from the G-forces. There were so many extreme maneuvers that this
 thing had made. Actually, he was convinced that it was of alien origin. Because of that,
 he actually went to college for his aerospace engineering degree. Then he worked with Werner
 von Braun in the NASA space program under the Saturn and several of the moon launches.
 He ended up doing a PhD. He had so many questions.
 I have no question of his qualifications. It just was an impact on him. He just couldn't
 understand it. He wanted knowledge. He's wondering if there might be another extraterrestrial
 explanation of what he observed. It's interesting because
 I need to reclaim my time, I'm sorry. It's an interesting answer. What I was going
 to tell you is out of all the people in my life I've encountered, my dad was a constant
 scientist. He was an atheist. He was just this total white-lane brain.
 I appreciate it. Thank you. I believe that he was an outstanding scientist.
 I'm going to turn to you and ask you this. Researchers have looked at a lot of things
 related to this. The maneuver abilities are certainly interesting. One of the reasons
 why I think there is skepticism that these objects have extraterrestrial origins is because
 of, I'll just put it bluntly, Einstein's relativity theory that nothing can go faster
 than the speed of light. What are the most compelling studies of people
 that could explain distance questions without suspending Einstein's theory of relativity,
 law of physics that's well accepted that nothing can travel faster than the speed of
 light? Mr. Cook, I'm very, very grateful you asked
 that question. First of all, I just want to mention that regarding atmospheric phenomena,
 atmospheric objects that seem to defy the laws of physics, but of course they don't.
 Nothing defies the laws of physics. The question was asked previously, why don't they make
 sonic booms? How do the piles withstand G-forces? All of this is related. I would just point
 out there was an outstanding study done years ago by a retired NASA scientist, Paul Hales,
 who was known throughout NASA as their go-to guy for UFOs. His exact question was how is
 it that UFOs do what they do? His conclusion in his study published posthumously in the
 1990s called Unconventional Flying Objects of Scientific Analysis was that they do not.
 If you assume, because nothing works aerodynamically, it doesn't make sense, but it makes sense
 if you factor in what he called field propulsion, that is a kind of anti-gravity. In fact, now
 what he couldn't figure out was what is the source of power for that. No one knows that.
 But actually, he did an outstanding work. His mathematics is very sound, and I would
 simply recommend it to everyone. Now the distance problem has also been discussed by a number
 of scientists in the last generation. Probably most famously, the mathematician Miguel Alcubierre,
 who, the math on what he did seems to be very, very good according to physicists, essentially
 think warp drive and Star Trek in the sense that if you have a source of power significant
 enough, it is possible and has been demonstrated mathematically for a craft literally to kind
 of shrink the space ahead and elongate it behind. You're not violating Einstein's E
 equals MC squared. It is literally space itself. I am going to reclaim my time only for the
 reason to just get this last question to you. When you say that you are kind of using anti-gravity
 as a way of saying we don't have to suspend Einstein's first theory of relativity, but
 if you do that, then you are suspending his second theory, the general gravitational theories.
 So what I am asking, let me ask you this. Aren't there researchers out there that have
 put together concepts or statements or proposed theories that say, hey, if you travel at even
 10% of the speed of light and if you have... Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. In fact, Stan
 and Friedman, who is here earlier this week, has discussed this at length. There is a gentleman
 named Paul LeVoillet, another named Thomas Vallone, both of whom have done a lot of work
 in lecture gravatics. I think it is very sound and worth anyone's attention. Thank you. I
 see my time has expired. So we are going with you, Representative Fire. Thank you very much.
 A man who may be able to know all these physics rules that I don't. Thank you all very much
 for your testimony. That there is a cloak of frequency, I think, is undeniable. Like
 the symptoms of a very serious disease, if the doctor doesn't know the etiology of the
 disease, it becomes very difficult to treat the symptoms. How in the heck did we get here
 with this cloak of secrecy? You really can't treat the disease until you know how it was
 engendered. I appreciate your testimony, Mr. Dolan, very much. You suggested at least one
 possible etiology for this symptom of this cloak of secrecy. Let me suggest another one
 that may give us the hope that it will be reversed. Because if you're right, and I hope
 you're not, but if you're right, there is no hope, or little hope, that they're going
 to reverse this cloak of secrecy. Let me suggest another one. For 20 years before I came to
 the Congress, I worked for the military in every capacity you can work for the military.
 Directly for them, captive Navy contractor, eight years for IBM. As an independent contractor,
 Roscoe Bartlett and Associates doing research work for the military. For the past 20 years
 until just four months ago, I was in the U.S. government, 20 years on the Armed Services
 Committee, 20 years interfacing with the leaders of our military and our government. I will
 tell you that I think that all of those that I have met make their decisions on the base
 of what they think is best for America. And I think that these decisions, I would like
 to believe that this decision, it was made very quickly after Roswell, was it not? Within
 a few hours, the decision was made that we were going to have a cloak of secrecy over
 this thing. Let me suggest that they made that cloak of secrecy because they thought
 that if they revealed the truth to the American people, they would be panicked. Like the panic
 after War of the Worlds on radio with H.G. Wells. If that was in fact their, the ideology
 for this, then it becomes pretty easy to reverse it. Because now after all these years, there
 is no evidence that if they are extraterrestrials, there is no evidence that they are hostile.
 So now, all these years we have been trying to protect the American people from themselves.
 I am not sure I agree with that judgment, by the way, that they need to be protected
 from themselves. But all these years we have been protecting them because we knew better
 than they. But now obviously there is no threat because these people have been here for a
 very long time, if in fact they are extraterrestrials. So now we can come clean with the American
 people. How about that?
 Wise words, sir. I agree with you. I think that the secret has its own momentum. It generates
 its own profitability. It generates its own bureaucracy. It generates its own need to
 continue, it seems to me. How do you tell the world that you have been lying for sixty
 plus years? I think you tell them, sir, because you thought that was what you had to do because
 you couldn't have the kind of panic that occurred after the War of the Worlds, this little thing
 on radio. Certainly we agree on this. And certainly I think we could say that in the
 very beginning the secrecy would have started precisely because it was not known. How could
 President Truman really know what he was dealing with? How could his advisors really know?
 So it seems logical to me, and I am sure many people think about it, that you would say,
 wait a minute, let's get together, let's think about this, let's figure out what we have
 and we will come to a decision at a certain period of time. My own belief is that breakthroughs
 in understanding the technology were made, greed comes into the factor, money comes into
 the factor, power, and the incentive just goes away. I think that through the Eisenhower
 years at the very least it went away. How quickly, sir, did they know that there
 were entities, these biological entities? I hesitate to use that word "biological."
 It depends on what evidence you judge. There are leaked documents. I consider them legitimate
 by and large. These are housed. One of the witnesses here, Dr. Robert Wood, is one of
 the individuals who has discussed them. They are called the majestic documents. If you
 take them at face value, it has been known since very early on, since the 1940s, that
 there are other entities that are here, extraterrestrial biological entities.
 The crafts could have been Soviet. We would have leaked anything about the Soviets. The
 entity certainly could not have been Soviet. If they knew about that, they knew very early
 this was extraterrestrial. They had to.
 They had to. If they knew that, then they could have had a legitimate concern that this
 was made public, the public was going to panic. For the good of the public, they couldn't
 make it public. Is that a reasonable argument?
 World War II had just ended. The entire world was lying flat on its back, millions of homeless
 and hungry people. Everyone was just trying to get back to a sense of normalcy. I can
 only imagine how the US military would have responded to something this exotic dropping
 into their lap.
 If this is, in fact, the ideology, then there is some hope that they can now say, gee, we've
 been watching this for all these years. Obviously, you're not hostile. Yes, it is extraterrestrial.
 My opinion is that there will never ever be any momentum from the top to move this forward,
 but the good news is that they're not the only game in town. The fact is our society
 is changing as dramatically as it is, as rapidly as it is, and there will be something that
 will force their hand. I'm convinced of this and I think it will happen within a generation
 or less. At that point, that's when the battle for truth begins, not ends, because there
 will still be spin doctors and attempts. The CIA will never just walk away from the table
 just because we figure something out. They're not going to say, oh, here's all of our information.
 The battle will continue, but at least it will be out in the open.
 The gentleman's time is expired.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
