 The meeting is called to order.
 Have we done the swearing in yet?
 We have not.
 Okay.
 Do you want to do the swearing in?
 I do.
 Thank you.
 And repeat after me.
 And feel free to say this in your native language.
 I do hereby affirm that I will tell the truth and nothing but the truth to this committee
 today.
 Thank you so much.
 Gracias.
 We have heard from a number of people this week that this phenomena has gone on.
 And it will be interesting to hear what you have to say from a variety of countries in
 South America.
 And I'm anxious to hear what all of you have to say.
 This is one of those hearings that I think our witnesses have all been absolutely fantastic.
 They have been ex-military.
 They have been people that have actually seen what's happened.
 They have studied it.
 They have done research.
 And today we are very fortunate to have you here at this hearing.
 And appreciate your coming and am anxious to hear what you have to say.
 So I am not going to spend a lot of time talking because I want to hear what you have to say.
 So welcome.
 And we will start out with, and if I don't say your name correctly, you will tell it
 to me, please.
 Is it Givard?
 Yes.
 Mr. Givard from Brazil.
 Thank you very much.
 I would like to begin with by thanking all of you members of the Congress who has given
 your time and your effort, your attention to the subject.
 We are all really anxious to see the results of this.
 I think it's a major step that has been done here in Washington, its history in making.
 And I'm very glad to be part of it along with my fellow researcher friends from South America.
 And we are here from several countries in South America.
 I have on my side, Chile, Uruguay, Peru, and Argentina, all of we are willing to invite
 you to dive into South American UFO research.
 But before I go on, I would like to ask permission to you gentlemen and ladies to introduce my
 fellow research and friend from Brazil who is a businessman and is also a former congressman
 for the Brazilian Congress who is much, much likely to be again after July as he is the
 next one.
 And this gentleman has given us in Brazil a strong support to development of the Brazilian
 ufology in several projects.
 Now he has some views that he would like to share with us, with you, and I would like to
 ask permission to introduce Mr. Wilson Pickler.
 I am absolutely delighted he's here.
 I understand from our short conversation that how your legislative process works and how
 ours works is quite different, but we may learn some lessons from you in the process.
 So welcome.
 Madam Chairperson, members of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, it's a great pleasure
 to speak in this conference.
 And I would like to congratulate the representatives of the American Congress for this important
 conference that will be remembered for the mankind forever.
 This is a beginning of a process of disclosure of the most important event for mankind lately.
 We wish for long to have contact with space people, and this fact has been hiding for
 the government for long.
 Why the government decided to hide it from the people, such an important fact.
 Because we have heard here in this conference from the military, retired militaries, that
 these beings, extraterrestrial beings, have such a capability of interfering in the nuclear
 weapons systems, even activating and deactivating these weapons.
 This explains why governments hide these from the people, because it changed the balance
 of power in the entire world, and they are doing a campaign to take out the credibility
 of this phenomena.
 And those people that are working here for many years, working hard with difficultness,
 is passing through humiliations.
 Is it?
 Humiliation?
 That's it.
 Because they say they do not exist, UFO do not exist.
 In fact, what we have heard here, they exist, they are here to save us against the insanity
 of our leaders.
 Because the powerful of these nuclear weapons can destroy the whole planet.
 I have heard them yesterday to prepare this speech.
 The power of the last detonation, which was by Russians, it is 3,333 times the power of
 Hiroshima bomb.
 So do you know the name the Russians put in that artifact?
 Translated to English, it is, "We will show you.
 It could be colored, must be colored.
 We hope we never use it."
 So just looking at the name of this artifact, like Hiroshima bomb, little boy.
 The other one, fat man.
 We can see what is the mentality of those people that are behind these weapons.
 And we declare, by the ufologist community, and also those ones that do not do research,
 but has in their heart, in their mind, a great wish to establish a friendships relationship
 with extraterrestrials.
 So what is happening here is really quite important for mankind.
 Congratulate for everybody that is organizing, taking part of this conference.
 Congratulations for the representatives of the American Congress.
 We are working towards the interests of the people of the Earth, and not the interests
 of few persons in the world that decide things for us, as it was already have been told here
 in this conference.
 And I would like to finish my speech.
 Thanks for the great architect of the universe to send these motherships to save us against
 our insanity.
 Thanks very much.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Excuse me.
 Thank you.
 And again, thank all of you for traveling a great distance to be here.
 I thought I traveled a long way just because I came across the United States, but thank
 you.
 I'd like to start out with Mr. Javarn.
 Thank you.
 Thank you, madam.
 Thank you, Professor Wilson-Pickler.
 I must add that as when he gets back as a congressman in Brazilian Congress, he wants
 to do something like this inside the house, inside the Brazilian Congress, as an official
 part of its agenda.
 Now, what you will see this morning with my friends and my testimonies is a slightly different
 type of ufology, of UFO research.
 You will see that our continent, the South America, is by far the continent that has
 most number of agencies to officially investigate the UFO phenomenon, has now or have had in
 the past several entities, bodies inside the armed forces of several countries to investigate
 the UFO phenomenon.
 Right now, as we speak, there is a very active organization investigating UFOs in Uruguay
 that has been on for 20 some years, and in Chile that has been on since 1997 and on.
 Brazil has had many, Ecuador has had, Peru has had, Argentina already has.
 In South America, there is a different view towards this phenomenon.
 I will speak especially about Brazil, my country, and presenting myself before I go on, I would
 like to say that I am 51 years old and I have been devoting my life to this phenomenon since
 I was a kid.
 It is at least for 35 years that I am dedicating myself to the investigation of this phenomenon.
 I am the editor of a magazine that is one of the longest living magazines about UFOs
 in the world.
 30 years in existence, and I have specialized lately in finding out and interviewing retired
 personnel from the armed forces, mostly from Air Force, but also from Navy and from Army,
 to interview them, to extract from them information of how Brazil has dealt officially with the
 UFO phenomenon in the last 50 or 60 years.
 Now I will begin by saying that just two weeks ago, this time, we had a meeting between Brazilian
 civilian UFO researchers, six of us of the Brazilian Committee of UFO Researchers, with
 members of the armed forces, 10 personnel from Army, Air Force, and Navy at the Ministry
 of Defense of Brazil.
 That was a meeting, a historical meeting, that was called, we were invited by the Ministry
 of Defense of one of the largest countries in the world to deal with the UFO phenomenon.
 I would like to show you some pictures, please, Jennifer, of this meeting that took place
 on April 18th.
 This is our federal capital, this is Brasilia, it's a modern capital, please, the next one.
 We were received by officers of the Ministry of Defense of Brazil in the building of the
 Ministry of Defense, where we could meet not only this official, but also members of the
 Brazilian Air Force, Army, and Navy, as I showed.
 Again, another picture, please.
 There you can see this meeting that was being conducted by the Secretary of the Minister,
 Ambassador Celso Amorim, next please.
 This is the Brazilian Committee of UFO Researchers members, my fellow research colleagues in Brazil.
 Next please.
 Next please.
 Thank you.
 Now, it was given to us at this time a promise that we, the civilian UFO researchers, will
 have a clear, unobstructed channel of communication with our armored forces through the Ministry
 of Defense, because they are subordinated to the Ministry of Defense.
 It was also granted to us the promise that more papers and documents will be disclosed
 in the near future.
 We're talking about June, maybe July, that some hundred new pages of UFO documents will be released.
 Now, for those of you who don't have the details of it, let me tell you that Brazil has been
 involved officially in the investigation of the UFO phenomena for decades.
 Actually, it was one of the first countries in the world to officially admit that we are
 being visited by extraterrestrial powers, extraterrestrial civilization.
 It took place in 1954 in Rio de Janeiro when it was assembled, one gathering among military,
 top-ranking military from the Brazilian Air Force and members of the press and the society,
 and it was declared that the UFO phenomena is very serious, worth of scrutiny, and has
 to be fully investigated.
 That was in 1954, and from that moment on, Brazil has been involved in several projects,
 have held several projects mainly from the Brazilian Air Force to investigate it.
 We had in 1969 a body that was created inside the Brazilian Air Force to investigate the
 subject and it was called System of Investigation of Area of Phenomena, Area Unidentified Phenomena,
 so any, it was spread all over the country using all the installations of the Brazilian
 Air Force and it had conducted dozens of investigations all over, including of sightings of UFOs,
 chasing of aircrafts, landing of UFOs, including with extraterrestrial entities, extraterrestrial
 biologic entities outside the crafts.
 It was all documented in an official way by the Brazilian Air Force from 1969 to 1972.
 Now, a decade later, or two decades later, a decade later in 1977, we have had another
 very important program to investigate this phenomena in the Amazon, and in a particular
 area in the Amazon where the UFO phenomena was being observed by the inhabitants, especially
 of an island called Coladis.
 The situation was so intense.
 The UFOs was being observed all over that island and in large portions of the Amazon
 region that the Brazilian Air Force put together a committee of members to investigate the
 phenomena officially, and it was called Operation Saucer.
 Operation Saucer lasted from September 1977 to December 1977.
 It interviewed hundreds of people that were in contact with this phenomena.
 But more than that, it was the purpose of the Operation Saucer, first, to talk to the
 witnesses to see what are their reports, second, to try to document the presence of this phenomena.
 And over 500 pictures of UFO were produced, along with 16 hours of video, actually of
 footage and film, 8 millimeters and 16 millimeters, military-style films of UFOs in the Amazon,
 sometimes at close range.
 And the third objective of the Operation Saucer, and this is official from the Brazilian Air
 Force, was try to establish contact with intelligences beyond this phenomena.
 This is all very intense.
 2,000 pages have been produced by 3,000 men who took part in this operation.
 I was the one chosen by the commander of this operation 20 years after it was ended to interview
 him, and he gave me with a huge amount of details what went on in that period of time.
 Since then, I have been chasing the information about Operation Saucer in UFOs in Amazon forever
 and everywhere I could find.
 And I'm glad to bring, and I would like to get introduced to this proceeding results,
 440 pages, which is 20 percent of what there is, of official UFO documents from the Brazilian
 Air Force that register, including with photos, maps, radar detects, croquis, designs, all
 sorts of information related to the UFOs in the Amazon, and lots of this procedure were
 followed by American military in the Amazon.
 Thank you.
 Thank you very much.
 I think we're going to just go down the line, have everyone testify, and then come back
 for questions, if that's all right.
 Welcome.
 And I'm probably going to butcher your last name, but Antonio Junel.
 Welcome to the committee.
 Thank you.
 Good morning, distinguished members of the panel.
 I already introduced myself on Monday, brought a little bit of my biography, so this time
 I will keep it.
 I will skip that part.
 I'm representing Chile, even though I'm not officially part of, member of that committee,
 but I know, as you know, I'm a Chilean-American, and I know the history of the Chilean official
 agency very well, so I will read now from my prepared statement.
 In recent years, Chile has become one of the world's leading nations in the official study
 and recognition of the UFO phenomenon.
 UFO agencies or departments have been traditionally been under the Air Force in most countries.
 In France, as we shall see in the next session, the effort is under the space agency.
 But Chile has taken a novel approach which makes logical sense.
 Its committee, known as CEFA, which is a translation for committee for the study of anomalous aerial
 phenomena, is under the Civil Aviation Agency, DGAC.
 In other words, it's like if the FAA, the Federal Aviation Administration, had a UFO
 department.
 Chile's aviation agents, civil aviation agencies all over the world that deal with aircraft
 safety and navigation, and UFOs, though not regulated by human governmental agencies,
 are primarily flying in the air and could pose a threat to aviation safety.
 Chile has a rich history of UFO cases, some of them highly strange, like an incident involving
 a group of seven soldiers in a corporal near Putre in Chile's northern Atacama region
 near the border with Peru in 1977, the so-called time warp case of Corporal Valdez, which became
 the subject of my very first UFO article back in 1977.
 In the 1980s, Gustavo Rodriguez, an air traffic controller, began to collect cases involving
 pilots who would call the control tower asking if there was any traffic that could explain
 lights or objects they were seeing during the course of their flights.
 There were also incidents involving the scramble of military jets, a situation common to many
 countries of the world.
 In the mid-90s, Rodriguez received the support of General Ramon Vega, a former commander
 in chief of the Chilean Air Force and later a senator.
 I had the opportunity of meeting both Gustavo Rodriguez and General Vega during several
 trips to Santiago in the 1990s.
 I gave the general, in fact, a copy of the Lawrence Rockefeller-sponsored UFO briefing
 document which I had co-authored and which perhaps played a small role in marshaling
 the evidence for the creation of CEFA-A in 1997.
 During its first months, however, CEFA-A seemed rudderless until Air Force General retired
 Ricardo Bermudez, who was named director.
 General Bermudez was the director of the Technical School of Aeronautics, which trains air traffic
 controllers, and it was at this school, which I visited many times, where the commission
 was housed for a number of years.
 CEFA-A's mission is to "record and analyze all relevant reports concerning UAP, unidentified
 aerial phenomena, occurring within the national territory on the basis of a serious objective
 and scientific analysis with the purpose of determining any possible risk to air operations."
 In 2002, CEFA-A became essentially inactive for a number of years, but in December of
 2009, the DDIC, the Civil Aviation Agency, announced that CEFA-A was being reactivated
 and once again General Bermudez was brought back to direct it and Gustavo Rodriguez to
 serve as secretary.
 The committee's headquarters was moved to a new location at the National Aeronautics
 and Space Museum near the old airport of Los Cerrillos in Santiago.
 One of the first things they did was to launch an official website, and I have the URL address
 here, which is by far the best of all the South American official agencies, the website
 I mean.
 It contains several UFO aircraft incidents with audio recordings of pilot controlled
 tower communications, videos, documents, articles, and other data.
 CEFA-A has an external committee of advisors, which includes eight top scientists from the
 Chilean Commission of Nuclear Energy, Aerospace Medicine at Santiago University, astronomers
 from the Metropolitan and Catholic Universities, a plasma physicist from Santiago University,
 a geographer and expert on satellite imagery from Chile State University, and two psychologists.
 There is also a CEFA-A internal committee, which includes experts on operation safety,
 air control center, meteorology, air accidents investigations, aerospace engineering, and
 audiovisual.
 They also have representatives from each branch of the armed forces and the police.
 On August 11, 2008, the Chilean government passed law 20285, known as transparency law.
 In some respects, it works similarly to our Freedom of Information Act.
 Government agencies have 20 days to respond to queries from the public regarding public
 records.
 But in some respects, it goes beyond the FOIA.
 With exception of matters dealing with national security and foreign relations, the transparency
 law was designed so government agencies can act in an open and transparent manner, even
 in cases where they receive no queries from the public.
 CEFA-A has fully complied with the requirements of the transparency law, and as explained
 by General Bermudez, "This is the way we deal with the phenomena, openly and freely."
 CEFA-A has documented many UFO cases involving commercial and military pilots.
 One of the more interesting ones, known as the Pelican case, occurred on June 24, 2010,
 and it involved three different aircraft, two airliners and a Navy plane called Pelican.
 As put by General Bermudez at a lecture he gave at the International UFO Congress in
 Fountain Hills, Arizona in 2012, "Three airplanes witnessed the same phenomenon.
 Two commercial planes are approaching Santiago.
 The military plane is coming 300 miles from the north, and an object is cruising his airway.
 The pilot reports something he sees camouflaged in erratic motion.
 In the audio communication, one can hear the pilot saying, 'Roger, at this moment, I can't
 see it anymore.
 I could see a traffic loud and clear.
 It looked like a cloud, camouflaged as a cloud, but with erratic motion.'"
 This case, as well as another one in Punta Arenas, detected by primary radar in 2011,
 is important because you have different professional pilots reporting the same object.
 As explained by General Bermudez, quote, "Think for a moment.
 If one experienced commercial pilot reports to me that something flew across in front
 of his airplane, I pay careful attention.
 But now, if a second commercial pilot reports the same a few seconds later, I become interested.
 But if a third pilot, a military one, confirms the same fact, I tend to believe it."
 In this case, do we have one UFO close to the airplanes, or do we have two UFOs?
 If we have one, its incredible speed doesn't correspond to anything we have now, 300 miles,
 you know, like in a couple of minutes.
 During the same lecture at the International UFO Congress, General Bermudez released a
 multiple video case taken at the El Bosque base in Santiago, where the Air Force Academy
 is located, which made world headlines.
 This was because several videos were taken during an important ceremony for the change
 of the commander of the Chilean Air Force on November 4, 2010, attended by the president,
 all the commanders of the armed forces and top brass, the minister of defense, and other
 cabinet members, the diplomatic corps, and many other important officials, including
 General Bermudez himself.
 The ceremony is popular with the public and widely photographed and filmed because it
 includes the air parade by all the different squadrons of the Chilean Air Force.
 It must be clarified, however, that none of the dignitaries or public saw the UFOs at
 the time.
 These were discovered later as people began to review the footage they had taken.
 I'm enclosing an interview I did with General Bermudez, published in Open Minds Magazine
 issue 16, October, November 2012, where he explains the methodology of CFA, as well as
 many of their best UFO cases, including the multiple footage case of El Bosque.
 CFA has shown that a serious and open official investigation of UFOs can be conducted in
 a serious and scientific manner.
 Some of the ingredients include cooperation among different government agencies, scientific
 and academic institutions, and even the civilian UFO community.
 Official and private investigators can and should cooperate instead of fighting with
 each other.
 The same model has taken place in other South American countries, like Uruguay, Brazil,
 Argentina, Peru, and Ecuador.
 Another key component is to establish official cooperation among different countries, since
 UFOs don't seem to care about national boundaries and are reported widely all over the world.
 For this reason, CFA and Kridovny, the official UFO agency run by the Uruguayan Air Force
 since 1978, signed an official agreement of cooperation and exchange of data in 2012.
 And we have here with us Colonel Sanchez, who was in fact the person that signed that
 agreement with General Bermudez.
 The United States likes to think that it's always ahead in all areas of society, but
 I'm afraid that this is not the case in the field of ufology.
 Other countries are moving ahead with an open and transparent investigation of this phenomenon.
 The unknown nature of the phenomenon itself and the likelihood that it originates not
 on this earth requires a change of attitude and a level of openness that seems to be amiss
 in this country.
 Let me finish with a quote from my interview with General Bermudez.
 Now I'm quoting him, "The official conclusion is that the anomalous aerial phenomenon known
 as unidentified flying objects is real and is present within the controlled airspace
 and outside the controlled airspace.
 It is also present in the sea.
 We have some reports from our Navy in that respect.
 It is present everywhere and therefore it is necessary to share the information in order
 to have more background and be able to study it more scientifically so that we can give
 real information to the people and not rely on what is shown in TV and in the sensationalist
 media."
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you.
 General Ariel Sanchez, I think we might need our microphones on.
 Welcome.
 Thank you.
 Ladies and gentlemen, I am Ariel Sanchez Ruiz.
 I'm a retired Uruguay Colonel of the Armed Forces and I belong to the reception and denouncements
 in Uruguay of UFOs that works together with the official Uruguay Air Force that takes
 care of all the citizens' reports of non-identified objects.
 I was a technical director and I have been 23 years researching this subject.
 I have retired from the Air Forces about nine months but I also worked as a specializing
 in air transit, specialization of air transit, and a professor of the School of Estado Mayor.
 I'm also a director of the Center for Exploration of Non-Civil Research of the UFO OVNI locally.
 Uruguay in these groups of investigation has about 1,300 cases that have been investigated
 for a long 30 years with 3% of these cases that have non-conventional characteristics.
 Uruguay is a small country with only 3,250,000 inhabitants in a land of 176,215 square feet.
 Its principal industry of Uruguay is cattle and raising and agriculture.
 1979 was created an office for the citizens' reporting of unidentified objects, most reiterated
 based on the 1970s, but the first registers started up in 1942.
 The Air Force is in charge of the safety of the country's air and the safety of the populace
 and also the passengers and airplanes.
 It takes care of all the denounces from all the media reports about what people have been
 notifying of UFOs.
 Here in these 33 years of activity, the Uruguay command of the Air Force has given any information
 of the diffusion or stopped the reporting of all this information.
 Through this commission, we are not rejecting or hiding or changing the situations that
 have been lived or experienced by the citizens that are reporting.
 It's only just taking the reports of the citizens.
 It's only just to make scientific studies about this phenomena that has been also, the
 Air Force has been researching.
 A lot of interviews have been done with all these people that were interested in this
 subject and reporters with the spirit of research and non-bias that could come together to work
 as a group to maximize all these research.
 In 7 of August in 1979, three officers were nominated for all this recopilation and analysis
 and 20 civil researchers were also called in to the help.
 LACRI OVNI is an organization that is a governmental institute, but it works as a public office
 for military and civil reports.
 The Uruguay Regional Research Civil Group that is non-governmental has the object to
 compile all the South American groups that are reporting about these UFO views and compile
 all the details into a bank of information.
 The results of this idea in 2012, two forces joined, Chile had been doing the first cooperation
 exchange with the international press with all this research.
 LACRI OVNI would like to use the same type of elements to review and incorporate all
 the research on these reports.
 After a few different trials, we adapted all this research as a commission with a president
 and a vice president and a secretary and an operative direction and technical and also
 to achieve any statistics.
 This commission was created to analyze all the cases before it was created and all the
 new cases that were coming up and being reported.
 Some problems were also faced to find conclusions that would be valid to apply to all the research.
 The first problem was how can we investigate?
 The second problem was how to evaluate something that we don't know what it is.
 So the decision was to opt a discussion that was open without prejudice or bias to explore
 the phenomena, to analyze all the studies that will be able to compile all the reports
 and all the events.
 First we started to study the UFOs first and the non-identified objects and anything that
 relates with it, like the territory, the people, any effects, any objects, animals, or anything
 that could be in relation to this UFOs.
 And all the revelations that people had been reporting, whether it was spiritual or mystic,
 we found out that it was a phenomenon that could absorb different opinions and different
 phenomena together into one.
 Why was this occurring?
 This phenomenon was absolutely unknown, that was presented and causing a lot of difficulties
 to study, having the spirit of curiosity and investigation to adjust our studies into the
 scientific responsibility and a methodology of research to be adequate for this research
 and evaluation to a qualification of the systems.
 Two pillars were the basis, the recollection of the information collected and the study
 of the comparative events in the phenomena, the questions asked, where we have people
 that will interrogate all the details and make conclusions, what possibilities it is
 that the testimony is not true, and the third, people that would have seen the events.
 What is the possibility to be a psychological illusion, the questions were negative or partial
 or there was any doubt that was reasonable to corroborate with the scientific research.
 What is the possibility that this phenomena is not conventional?
 We don't know what it is, but we can also identify the methodology had a possibility
 of percentage that we don't know what it is and cannot identify, we cannot tell what
 it is, and we cannot identify with anything known or conventional.
 Finally, to evaluate all this information, we have a system that will give us the opportunity
 to corroborate the veracity and filter all the details that we can submit to work together
 with international groups to work together and our model of organization I would like
 to offer our methodology of working to create an office to study this subject and we can
 submit on the United Nations so we can, together with the rest of the world, lift the veil
 and find out the exact details of what this phenomena is.
 Thanks.
 Thank you.
 Yes, Anthony Choi from Peru, welcome.
 I'm greeting you ladies and gentlemen to address in the panel.
 Very good morning.
 My name is Anthony Choi.
 I'm going to read my declaration.
 I am a lawyer and a media reporter for investigation.
 I am the main investigator of the non-identified objects and I have attended the Area War School
 of Peru and Space for Peru.
 I am the main investigator for the official UFO research of Peru, founded on 1st November
 on 1971.
 I have been investigating for 13 years this phenomena in Peru and I have also a radio
 program in Peru which is one of the most important in Pan America.
 I would like to go, please, to image number one, please, around 7 p.m. on 13th of October
 2001 in the skies of this city.
 There's a city where there is a strange light.
 This is north of Peru with the frontier with Ecuador.
 We're going to see the image number two, eight light spheres appear and then on the
 right side up here you'll see intense lights.
 Color is orange and dozens of witnesses have observed this.
 These lights have been for two and a half hours, absolutely in silence and forming figures
 that were geometric alignments, so somehow they were giving a light show for all the
 witnesses and then suddenly disappeared.
 25th of October, another luminous object about 25 meters of diameter.
 We can see one of the witnesses pointing to it.
 Site number six, please, appears hovering in the sky and the city was accompanied by
 another spheres of light, one of which landed, quote, unquote, so it landed in a nearby hillside.
 The whole view lasted 26 minutes.
 This is part of a video that we extracted these images from the video.
 That's when he landed the witnesses unanimously.
 They had heard a greeting on their head.
 It was like a greeting.
 They heard, hello.
 And lastly, on November 15th, another red luminous sphere descended on the same city,
 which after a few minutes, it disappeared.
 These events, we should note, were recorded on three videos, copies of which we are turning
 over to the committee so that you can look at them.
 They were recorded by Ivan Issa Nanfardo, who was a cameraman from that community, and
 I asked him for a copy so that I could begin my respective investigation.
 In the media, the case was called the Chulucanas incident, and the videos were turned over
 to the Peruvian Air Force and given to Peruvian Air Force Commander Julio Chamorro-Flores,
 who is the chief of the Peruvian Air Force's UFO investigation office.
 He instructed me to proceed with my investigation.
 The investigation was able to document statements from dozens of witnesses.
 However, they were also able to confirm a very significant event, most of which were
 unfamiliar to people around the world, and this is something that many investigators
 need to know.
 South America, perhaps right now, is the area where there are the largest number of sightings.
 It is surprising how the world, even the United States of America, are unaware of this situation.
 I think much of this has to do with the role of the media.
 And just as a matter of example, I'm going to point out a few of these cases.
 In 1959, during a military training flight of a squadron of four P-47 planes near the
 city of Chulucanas, Peruvian Air Force Captain Ernesto Arancivia Linares had an encounter
 with a UFO that shut down his plane's engine.
 It was hovering in the air for an hour, and during which time Captain Arancivia states
 that he had an encounter and communication with the alleged crew members who, based on
 his testimony, official testimony, seemed to be humans with Nordic features.
 Captain Arancivia reported this to his command, but his command never made this public.
 Okay, can we see slides nine and ten?
 This is retired Captain Arancivia right now, and this is an illustration that he drew,
 his description of this UFO that he saw hovering in the air for an hour.
 And now we'll see our slide number 11.
 In 2002, during a nighttime military training flight in the area close to Moropon, very
 close to Chulucanas, Peruvian Air Force Captain Germán Shrock Castillo and another pilot,
 after receiving a report from a commercial flight and flying at an altitude of 12,000
 feet, detected an unexplainable, perfect circle outlined by fire of an immense diameter of
 between 15 and 18 kilometers.
 No explanation for that phenomenon could be found, nor was this ever revealed to the public.
 In 2004, and now we'll see image number 12, a team from the Univision Television Network
 in Denver, Colorado, traveled to the area to work on a news report on UFOs.
 And on August 6th of that year, at approximately 1.33 a.m., this team was able to record a
 video of a strange object flying over Cerro Pilán.
 The Colonel José Ratti from FAP Airspace Director of Peru, representing the Peru Air
 Force, the first officer officially of a case that was recognized to all media of communications.
 The initiative, we must recognize the courage action of Peru Air Force to dedicate time
 to open up this information, being the third in Latin America group to report these incidents.
 The city of Chulucan, their chiefs of this report have been inexplicably stolen and are
 missing from FAP, the official UFO reporting agency in Peru, in regards to this UFO case.
 The city of Chulucan, the first official investigation of a case of UFO to be disclosed.
 The archives have been missing.
 We're going to see image number 18, the testimony of the people seeing all these events in Peru.
 It's mostly on the Peruvian territory, very, very, very long history of my country, Peru.
 In Cusco, this is a photograph that's been taken.
 This is a very significant event.
 Peru is one of the six places that for 6,000 years that we have human inhabitation, the
 Mayas ancestry.
 That exists also evidence that there is pilots that have encounters in space.
 That they have shown a completely unknown performance in the airspace.
 That they have been turned down for informing anything in regards to this event.
 1980s, my colleagues and I, we commence studying these events.
 My presence here is to confront that the United States and other regions of the world are
 not willing to acknowledge this phenomenon.
 But this requires a global response in regards to the research of this phenomenon.
 These events and these UFOs that are originating out of the Earthly space and the performance
 of these non-identified objects and phenomena and the citizens that are reporting witnessing.
 We are in front of one of the most important mysteries of the contemporary time.
 This is a simple and powerful event.
 The interaction with other civilizations of the world and learning about our visitors.
 They are influencing our society in present times.
 We are immersed in the process of preparation to open up all these phenomena.
 It's about 60 years that this phenomenon has been studied in my country, but the governments
 are protectionists or interested in not disclosing the information pertaining to this phenomenon
 of unidentified objects.
 And also, the reporters, they are abandoning the spirit of research instead of reporting
 the real truth.
 But in our planet, we have an obligation to comment about this and research.
 We are sharing with other civilizations that are of world in the main time the healing
 of our community in regards to this.
 Thank you very much.
 And next we have Colonel Oscar Santamaria.
 Welcome.
 Good morning.
 A cordial greeting and thanking the Commission and my thanks for inviting me to present this
 information.
 I'm Mr. Huertas.
 I have been a combat pilot of Peru's Air Force, and I would like to present a document to
 the U.S. Department of Defense.
 Please, first image.
 You can see that here, this document was a 1982 document that was produced by the U.S.
 Department of Defense informing in the near of the La Jolla, south of Peru base, there
 was several opportunities, a UFO reported first in the morning time, the second time
 in the times of the evening of the next day.
 The UFO that appeared in the morning, an airplane, SU-22, tried to intercept it and destroy it
 without being lucky in the objective.
 It was ineffective to try to destroy this UFO.
 Second page, there's more details about this event given the name of the base and other
 details pertaining.
 The pilot that was driving, I was the pilot that was piloting this airplane, and I will
 be very happy to narrate and explain the events that occurred.
 I was the pilot in this airplane trying to intercept the UFO.
 In the area base of La Jolla in the Department of Arequipa in the south of Peru, 11 April
 1980, in the morning, 1,800 people, civil and military, that they were part of the base
 could observe at the end of the landing strip an object that looked like an aerostatic globe
 suspended in the air, about five kilometers of distance and 1,500 of altitude.
 The system of radars did not detect this globe approaching, and this object did not respond
 to the tower of control messages.
 This was a strange location that was not allowed except for military, so we thought it was
 a espionage for this military base, and it could be considered a danger for the security
 of the country.
 So the squad was ordered that one of the pilots did have to go up in the air and follow the
 object and destroy the object.
 The air command gave me the order to take off and to shoot this object before it approaches
 too fast to the base.
 So I first approached this object, and this airplane that I was piloting had military
 weapons.
 I did an ascent from the right to the 1,500 kilometers of height, and I initiated the
 attack procedures.
 When I was close to the object, I threw away a charge of missiles, but this globe never
 got any damages and started ascending and living in a very, very fast pace.
 During the persecution of this globe, I had a 900 kilometers per hour speed, but I couldn't
 reach him.
 When I arrived to 84 kilometers of distance from the base, this globe stopped very quickly.
 I had to make a very quick maneuver to avoid confrontation.
 When I wasn't getting close to shooting again at the distance, the object did a very fast
 movement and went underneath my airplane without allowing me to shoot.
 Our locations evaded my location and avoided on the last minute all my intent to shoot.
 Confronted with this situation, I took the decision to speed on a very high velocity
 and ascend very high to go ahead and attack in a very vertical manner, but the globe did
 have a maneuver of lifting very, very quickly, so I wasn't able to focus to shoot.
 The next view, I accelerated my airplane to get to 1.6 mach, approximately 1,850 kilometers
 per hour, and I began to ascend.
 I surpassed the position of the balloon, and I hoped to be able to be high enough to get
 into my attack maneuver, but I was surprised when the balloon, again, quickly ascended
 and was able to get alongside my plane, and therefore I was unable to attack it.
 With the UFO parallel to my plane, I kept going up, hoping to be able to surpass it
 to be able to get into attack position, but I was unable to do so.
 So we got up to 19,200 meters, about 63,000 feet, as you can see here, where the balloon
 stopped its ascent, and I tried to, again, get it in my sights to be able to fire, but
 it was impossible.
 At that point, my low-fuel light came on, saying that I had just enough fuel to get
 back to land.
 Since I could no longer continue my attack, I approached it, got to a distance of about
 100 meters, and I was able to see that this balloon was not a balloon.
 It was about 10 meters in diameter, and on the top it had an enamelled, a non-metallic
 cream-colored enamelled dome, and that in its base it had a wide, silver, circular metallic
 surface.
 It did not have any wings, jet propulsion, windows, antenna, anything like that.
 These are obviously surfaces that aircraft usually have; pulling myself together, I went
 back to the air base, and I reported to the control tower what I had seen.
 In total, there were 22 minutes of maneuvers that are clearly etched in my brain, and I
 am convinced that there is extraterrestrial technology and life.
 I will never forget what I saw that day, and this is a sketch of what I saw.
 If you could go on to the next slide.
 It more or less looked like this, and the two next slides we can see.
 This is a photo of me with my plane.
 This is from 1980.
 Next slide, please.
 This is a Sukui 22.
 Thank you very much.
 That is the end of my remarks.
 That must have been some ride.
 And then we have Alejandro Chinoti.
 Welcome.
 Well it is a great honor to be here with you, members of Congress.
 I do not represent any official Argentinian group.
 I am a news producer for the third largest Spanish channel here in the United States
 and have been here for many years.
 But despite that, I have not stopped investigating my dear country of Argentina, and I thank
 you for this great invitation.
 I am happy to be here on behalf of Argentina and other countries.
 So these UFO investigation projects are nothing new in my life.
 As an investigative reporter and field researcher, I have investigated many cases that were investigated
 before and after the event by official groups or through subsequent historical reviews.
 From my very early childhood, I was a part of a civil investigation group that sought
 cooperation with official entities and we, the special and noble species called UFOlogists.
 In the 1980s, my group, the UFO Investigations Commission, or CU as it is known, which is
 directed by Dr. Joseph Allen Heineck, who is a recognized astronomer and advisor to
 the Blue Book Project, chose us as representatives of this organization as editors of its bulletin
 in Spanish in the International UFO Report.
 At that time, Heineck was seeking international exchange and the timing was perfect.
 We brought him to the National Commission for Space Studies, called NIE, with the hopes
 to reinvigorate our efforts and help this phenomenon to be taken seriously and receive
 support in the investigation of recent cases like the crash that had happened in the north
 of Patagonia.
 Investigations in Argentina began with Navy projects and then later they went to the National
 Gendarmerie as well as the Air Force.
 Global projects began to gain support in the 1960s.
 There was the famous case of Captain Miotti that I was able to investigate research years
 later in Yacanto, a province of Cordoba.
 There was a sighting of a conical-shaped object on a foggy morning and it was photographed
 clearly and it was analyzed by the National Aeronautics Service.
 They concluded that there was a dark part on the underside of the object showing absorption
 of light or radiation.
 This was one of the first speculations about the possible energy aspect to UFOs.
 I'm not sure if we actually have a copy of this image in my PowerPoint.
 If it is there, we can project it.
 If not, we'll continue.
 My first contact with classified archives came through my friendship with journalist
 Eduardo Azcuy, who was one of the first advisers to the Navy on the naval project.
 In the 1960s, the Navy was on alert for the apparition of submerged objects that were
 not detected by sonar and they moved at high speeds.
 Sometimes they would fly and they were in the form of a cigar.
 We called these unidentified submerged objects or USOs.
 These cases were pursued with the support of American ships and they helped in the research.
 Unfortunately, there are no declassified documents on these cases.
 The first official group of the Navy was called COPEFO, which was the permanent commission
 for the study of UFOs and it was led by now late Captain Omar Parani.
 Years later, in the Argentinian and Chilean bases in Antarctica, there were multiple sightings.
 It was a multicolored disk that led to magnetic disturbances in the detector's radar on both
 bases.
 In 1965, personnel from the Deception Island, also in Antarctica, were able to take a single
 photo.
 This was with underwater volcanoes.
 In terms of the chronology of acknowledgement of official cases, I made a list of declassified
 cases.
 The '70s were a particularly busy time, but this began in the '60s.
 In 1962, a fighter plane squadron from the Esporta base, which is inside the Buenos Aires
 province, detected UFOs on the landing strip and they made an attempt to intercept them.
 In 1965, the same thing happened in that same area.
 This is an area that is very dry and hot and there was a great concentration of sightings
 in the '60s.
 In 1978, there was a very interesting case in El Dique de la Florida where a UFO landed
 and there was a humanoid who exited.
 There were a number of witnesses to this.
 The next year, I met with some of the witnesses and the police of the province provided an
 official communique where they talked about the prints that were found on the ground from
 that being.
 That year, the provincial police published a document where they showed a giant UFO that
 actually had an impact on the train rails.
 In 1982, in Catamarca, which is a province in a town that's curiously called London,
 and that happens a lot on the Falkland Islands, but the police saw an object that had showed
 deflagration that produced great destruction.
 The chief of police issued an official report and I was the only investigator at that time
 when I arrived after the event.
 In 1986, in Cordova, in Cerro El Pajarillo, which is one of the communities in El Huitorco,
 Cruz de Eje, there was a print that seemed to be the crash of a UFO.
 The regional authorities accepted this case as one that was strange and one that needed
 to be investigated.
 Between '87 and '89, a commission was created under the armed forces and it was led by a
 great friend of mine, Julio Goxena-Aguaro, and it was very important in the province
 of Entre Rios, there was a phenomenon of UFOs that would actually have an impact on the
 ground and I had the opportunity of taking video and investigate this over several years.
 In 2009, Argentinian investigation groups were united under a single association called
 CEFORA, which is the Commission for the Study of UFO Phenomena in the Argentinian Republic.
 They included scientists, investigators, and members of the military and they sought to
 access in a methodological and systematic way the secret archives related to UFOs.
 One of the first groups that was being pushed by this commission was the support and acceptance
 by the Argentinian Air Force, which decided to create, three years ago, CEFA, which is
 the Commission on Aerospace Phenomena Study.
 This was under the leadership of Captain Mariano Mohabt and a few civilians.
 They have investigation brigades like Carlos Ferguson, Carlos Urchuk, and Andrea Simondini.
 The second phase, which continues today, is under the guise of Commodore Guillermo Aloy.
 The first official investigation took place in September of 2011, when a glowing ball
 fell from the sky and led to a lethal and tremendous explosion in Monte Grande, which
 is in the province of Buenos Aires.
 This case remains unsolved, it's alleged that it could have been a gas explosion, but
 the public and civilian investigators continue to rule that possibility out.
 There was great destruction and one person was killed in the course of this incident.
 With respect to UFOs, this Air Force Commission has clarified that its work is not focused
 on proving the existence of extraterrestrial life, rather it is a scientific study that
 can lead to the truth.
 Sephora has continued to ask for the declassification of documentation on this case and the previous
 cases.
 There's a case in Guadalupe, Polanco.
 This was a case of the Argentinian airline where the pilot saw a UFO that attempted to land
 in the Bariloche airport.
 The object went in front of the plane and took an escape route.
 The crew was very frightened and all radio signals and communication with the airport
 were cut off.
 At the same time, there was a general blackout in the city and a gendarmerie plane saw the
 danger of the situation at the same time.
 So Sephora was able to get transcripts of the communications between the aircraft and
 the tower.
 However, it has not been able to obtain the documentation prepared by the gendarmerie.
 They have recently begun to declassify cases like the case of Campo de Mayo in the province
 of Buenos Aires from November 1972.
 At this time, an object in the shape of a half moon, which had a light of a smaller
 size underneath, began to make emergency maneuvers.
 So Sephora is currently in talks with different ministries for UFO declassification.
 One is the Ministry of Defense, under which the Air Force and the Navy fall, and the other
 is the Ministry of Security, which includes the national gendarmerie and the prefecture.
 Sephora has brought together more than 1,000 citizen signatures for the presentation of
 a bill before the House of Representatives in the nation and the executive branch and
 the Ministry of Defense for the declassification of these documents.
 Obviously, this is being supported by other civilian groups.
 There are many, many particularly young people who are following these investigations, young
 people with a lot of energy, and who have united behind the declassification of this.
 You can see Argentina is part of South America.
 We've had some very interesting cases that have been striking internationally.
 Many investigators, as I noted before, Jaime and some of the other international investigators,
 we believe that some of these cases, these rich cases that are very strange but there
 have been reliable sightings, could bring new elements to the fore.
 I remember Dr. Hynek always told me that perhaps we'll never know about this phenomenon fully
 in our lifetimes, but it's worth the sacrifice and energy we are investing in our investigations.
 Our work, our task, is to compile information so that scientists in the future may be able
 to shed some light on this phenomenon.
 And in conclusion, with regard to official investigations, over the last 40 years, military
 entities have studied UFOs with scientific care to separate misinterpretations, natural
 misinterpretations, and the difference between science and nature.
 Things that cannot be explained.
 The position of these agencies has not changed much since the 1960s up till now.
 And I am a living witness to this.
 I have spent the past 36 years investigating these UFO phenomena, not just in Argentina
 but in Latin America and the world as a whole.
 But we continue to believe that our elegant universe, it warrants the benefit of the doubt
 that this phenomenon may or may not be extraterrestrial, but we still need more proof.
 Reading between the lines, we know that many of these official organizations, they don't
 say it or write it, but they believe that the phenomenon could, in fact, be extraterrestrial.
 The Argentinian Armed Forces and their scientific commissions have never openly declared that
 the phenomenon might be extraterrestrial, but rather they let people read between the
 lines.
 Thank you very much.
 [ Applause ]
 >> Thank you very much, and I want to thank all of you.
 We're going to take a short break, and then we will come back and have questions.
 So what do you think, 15 minutes?
 15 minutes, so if we can be back at a quarter to 11, that would be perfect.
 Thank you.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
