 So if you're willing to do that, go ahead and stand.
 And stand, you can do it a second time, that's fine.
 Please repeat after me.
 I do hereby affirm that I will tell the truth and nothing but the truth to this committee
 today.
 Thank you.
 Distinguished Congresswomen and Congressmen, good afternoon.
 I personally would like to thank you for this opportunity to speak out on behalf of the
 many now passed through the portals of history, unable to speak for themselves.
 Men and women who have served this country selflessly and with honor, who are witnesses
 to something extraordinary, something beyond a human condition, most would maintain their
 sworn silence for a lifetime.
 Others would eventually confide to their immediate loved ones or to us the truth of the matter.
 Moreover to these who this panel represents today, who so valiantly fought for freedom
 during World War II, who saved the world from Nazi domination, the fates were not finished
 with such devotion to their country.
 Within two years of the surrender of Germany and Japan, they would be called on again to
 lead us into an unprecedented awareness that we may be under another threat, another invader.
 However, this time not from any distant nation, but conceivably from across the vast distance
 of space.
 Prior to the summer of 1947, visitors from other planets were strictly the fancy of science
 fiction writers.
 For lack of outside influence, spaceships were rockets and spacemen looked like our
 neighbors down the street, all of which were portrayed in popular TV series such as Flash
 Gordon and Buck Rogers during that time period.
 Nevertheless, the summer of 1947 would forever change that perception.
 Among others, highly skilled and professional people such as college professors, astronomers
 and commercial pilots were observing flying disks and military fighters were scrambled
 on these reported unknown aerial objects.
 From all accounts, they outperformed and outmaneuvered the best we could throw at the newly arrived
 phenomenon.
 Their very words, flying saucers, would forever become part of our vernacular.
 Many assumed they were of American design.
 Many believed Soviet.
 But then something happened in the high desert of New Mexico, which would alter the course
 of history.
 Ironically, the first atomic bomb wing, the 509th Bomb Group, was stationed at Roswell
 in 1947.
 This was a composite group assigned in the final months of the war, comprised of the
 best officers, pilots and their crews, doctors, nurses, all in one unit, all with top security
 clearances, the elite within the United States military, their mission to drop one, and if
 necessary, additional atomic bombs on Japan.
 Two years later, they would have another mission, unlike the first.
 This was an assignment to retrieve something which had dropped out of the sky.
 In addition, for those involved, who knew the truth, the stars would beckon with even
 greater brightness.
 On July 8th of 1947, the Roswell Army Air Field announced to the world they had captured
 a flying saucer on a ranch north of town.
 This is a matter of historic fact.
 The tractors would suggest that other UFO accounts are based on a faulty premise, that
 the phenomenon exists.
 The Roswell Incident in 1947 does not suffer any preconceived misinterpretation of the
 event.
 It entirely rests on the premise that the United States Army Air Corps recovered a crashed
 flying saucer.
 Historically, the first explanation lasted for all of five hours as it slowly evolved
 from something otherworldly into a very common off-the-shelf weather balloon device.
 Please allow me to propound a consideration for everyone here present.
 Would any of us have any difficulty identifying materials such as rubber, wooden sticks, reflective
 foil, masking tape, and string?
 No need to raise your hands.
 As a continuing insult to the integrity and intelligence of the very personnel who were
 in charge of the atomic bomb at Roswell, officialdom, after 65 years of ridicule and defamation
 of eyewitnesses, insists that this elite military squadron would all raise their hands.
 The balloon that was assembled and launched daily by these same personnel somehow morphed
 into wreckage that even by today's standards defied conventional explanation.
 Dozens of witnesses have described to us paper-thin, metal-like material that could not be damaged
 by any standard means.
 Yet, you could crumble it up, crush it into a ball, release your grip, and it would open
 up and flow like water over your hands.
 Was the balloon not a single witness to that alternative explanation?
 Since that time, due to eyewitness pressure, along with the assistance of one of your esteemed
 colleagues, the late Congressman Stephen Schiff of New Mexico, it caused the Pentagon to issue
 two additional solutions to what was recovered back in 1947.
 The third being Project Mogul, which was the exact same balloon contraption with the inclusion
 of an acoustic device.
 The fourth and most baseless of all, time-traveling wooden crash dummies parachuted five years
 later in 1952.
 Even Jay Leno made jest about such fodder after the Pentagon disclosed its fourth version.
 Video writers and newspaper cartoonists lampooned the very suggestion and indicated proponents,
 indicted proponents as the real dummies.
 To think we now have four official versions of one historic event.
 Even politicians can't get away with that.
 However, which is the consensus of the eyewitnesses?
 Which of the four would provide sufficient evidence, albeit circumstantial, in any court
 of law?
 Former U.S. Attorney General Joseph DeGenova has stated, "Circumstantial evidence is often
 stronger than eyewitness testimony because it's based on the facts.
 When you have footprints in the snow, it proves someone was there."
 The Roswell incident has produced hundreds of footprints, not in the snow, but rather
 in the desert soil of New Mexico.
 Sworn affidavits and a growing list of deathbed testimonies, confessions, all stating that
 the first press release about the recovery of the flying saucer was the correct one.
 As attorneys, you all know that deathbeds are admissible.
 If we were to dismiss the Roswell witnesses, then we would have to deny all such end-of-life
 declarations.
 There should be no discrimination just because we do not like their testimony.
 The proponents of a new theory and ideas are rightfully pressed for answers, yet whether
 one is able to offer evidence, either pro or con, should not be the issue.
 Another situation where after years of inquiry and investigation, there still remains questions.
 The mystery continues.
 That alone should generate further doubt and speculation.
 To do otherwise and persist in ignoring one of the most significant discoveries of all
 time may be one of the greatest mistakes in the history of humanity.
 To paraphrase Shakespeare's Hamlet, there are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
 than are in your dreams.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Just for the record, would you give a little bit of your background, just briefly?
 My background, I worked for the U.S. Postal Service for about 25 years and I graduated
 cum laude from Concordia University in Wisconsin.
 I was a special investigator for the late Dr. J. Allen Heineck of the Center for UFO
 Studies in Chicago.
 I would become the center's director of special investigations for 10 years.
 I sat on their board of directors for 10 years.
 To date, we have interviewed over 600 witnesses, either directly or indirectly involved, which
 have provided us with an opportunity to write four bestselling books on the Roswell incident.
 The Roswell movie, which starred Cama Glocklin, Martin Sheen, Dwight Yoakam, was based on
 our first book, UFO Crash at Roswell.
 It's been quite an adventure, but I need emphasize to the panel that I was a complete skeptic.
 We thought we would make a single trip down to New Mexico and in a single weekend wrap
 this up, either coming away convinced that this was nothing more than a weather balloon
 or something else just as conventional.
 And upon speaking with first-hand witnesses, describing those very characteristics I mentioned
 of the material, of the wreckage, we realized that we needed to get back and continue tracking
 down as many witnesses as quickly as we could.
 We realized that we were potentially on one of the biggest stories of all time.
 Thank you for your passion and your commitment to what you've been doing.
 Thank you.
 Mr. Friedman, you're an old witness here, so you know the rules.
 I am the oldest witness here.
 You're not even close to us.
 Go ahead.
 You're right. I'd like to show the opticals, the visuals that I supplied, just to go through
 them quickly, very quickly.
 Biggest study ever done for the United States Air Force, Project Blue Book Special Report
 14, 3,200 sightings never referred to by the debunkers.
 The next one, please.
 Symposium on Unidentified Flying Objects.
 Those are the hearings of July 29, 1968.
 I was the youngest then of the contributors to that.
 254 pages, well worth looking at.
 The next one, please, Dr. J. Allen Hynek's book.
 He was only the Air Force Project Blue Book consultant for 20 years and chairman of the
 Department of Astronomy at Northwestern.
 You'd think when astronomers take wax at UFOs, they would at least look at Allen's book,
 but they don't.
 The next one, there's the University of Colorado study, 965 pages, $539,000 it cost us.
 The press gave the vision that this proved there was nothing to flying saucers.
 A more careful look at the report shows that 30% of the 117 cases studied in detail could
 not be identified.
 You didn't hear that when the report came out.
 So let's get those out of the way and then we'll go on to my prepared testimony here.
 People have often asked me why I think aliens would want to visit Earth.
 I have noted many reasons.
 Graduate students doing their thesis research on a primitive society, mining of dense metals
 as we have the densest planet in the solar system, et cetera.
 But most important to me is that I consider all civilizations would be concerned about
 their own survival and security.
 That means keeping tabs on those primitive societies in the neighborhood that show signs
 of being able to bother them.
 By July 1947, it was clear to any aliens in the neighborhood that we have a primitive
 society whose major activity is tribal warfare and that soon, less than 100 years, which
 is nothing on a cosmic time scale, we would be able to visit aliens out there taking our
 brand of friendship, everybody else calls it hostility, the facts that demonstrate that
 our nuclear weapons, powerful rockets, and radar, the beginning of advanced electronics.
 Isn't it amazing that the only place in the world at that time where you could study all
 three of these was southeastern New Mexico, our first nuclear weapon was detonated at
 Trinity site, White Sands Missile Range, July 16th, 1945.
 White Sands is where we're testing captured German V2 rockets and some of our own.
 And that's where we had our best radar to track the rockets.
 Sometimes they went south instead of north.
 And of course, as it turns out, there were at least three flying saucer crashes in New
 Mexico.
 In early July 1947, there was a crash near the small town of Corona, less than 80 miles
 from Roswell Army Airfield and nearby Roswell.
 100 miles west, there was an unpublicized crash at about the same time, the Plains of
 Santa Augusta, new book coming out this year about that, not by me.
 Book by Arthur Campbell.
 And there was a crash retrieval operation in Aztec, New Mexico in the Four Corners area
 March 1948.
 New book is available.
 I was the first to hear about the Corona crash, as discussed in my book, "Crash at Corona"
 with Don Belinner.
 Simple story.
 I began lecturing about flying saucers in 1967 while working as a nuclear physicist in
 industry for little companies such as GE, GM, Westinghouse, et cetera.
 In 1978, I was in Baton Rouge, Louisiana to speak at Louisiana State University.
 I was at a TV station to do three interviews to promote my lecture that evening at LSU.
 I had done two of the interviews.
 The third reporter was nowhere to be found.
 The station manager knew I had other things to do, was giving me coffee, looking at his
 watch.
 He was embarrassed, but he wanted to keep me there for that third interview.
 Out of the blue, he said, "The guy you really ought to talk to is Jesse Marcel."
 He handled the wreckage of one of those saucers when he was in the military and practically
 dropped my teeth.
 What do you know about him?
 He lives in Houma.
 That didn't tell me anything, because I didn't know where Houma was.
 It's a big city in Louisiana.
 I did visit there later to speak to Jesse.
 We are ham radio buddies, he told me, the station manager.
 You should talk to him.
 Okay, the third reporter, I've heard lots of stories, and you've sort of put it in your
 gray basket.
 We'll see what we can do.
 There was a great crowd the next day, that night, and the next day I was at the airport
 early, called information, got a number for Jesse Marcel, and called him.
 He told me his story.
 As I found out later, he couldn't deny his involvement, as his name was in papers across
 the country.
 I didn't know it when I called him.
 People said, "Why did he talk to you?"
 Well, he didn't have a choice.
 He had to talk to somebody, because he couldn't lie about it, when it was public record.
 Soon thereafter, I heard about the Plains of San Agustin crash, after a lecture in Bemidji,
 Minnesota.
 I shared both stories with an old colleague from Pittsburgh, Bill Moore, who lived in
 Minnesota.
 He had a third story, from the Flying Saucer Review in the UK, which is still being published,
 which is rather amazing, that it's gone on this long.
 An English actor named Huey Green had noted that he heard about a crash saucer in New
 Mexico, when driving from Los Angeles to Philadelphia.
 The date was recalled as early July, 1947.
 That was not a trip you made very often back then.
 You can imagine what the roads were like at that time.
 Bill went to the University of Minnesota library, looked at the newspaper department, found
 the story, verifying what I'd been told, giving us new names.
 The next year and a half, we found 62 people, in conjunction with that case.
 That went up to 92, a few years later.
 These guys have had, I don't know, how many hundreds since then.
 Remember, we're talking about the most elite military group in the world.
 I got lucky.
 I called the Roswell Daily Record, which I hadn't known existed before that, looked
 in Editor and Publisher.
 I mentioned that I had some articles noting a crash of a saucer, as reported by a Walter
 Holt, Hout, it's spelled four different ways.
 I was shocked to be told, before I could finish the sentence, "Oh, his wife works here."
 Boy, talk about serendipity.
 How lucky can you get?
 I talked to the wife, talked to Walter.
 He was a big help to all of us in our research on Roswell, well thought of throughout the
 Roswell community.
 I found the son of the rancher.
 Telephone operators were nice then.
 I said, "I'd like to find anybody named Brazel."
 What city?
 I don't know.
 Southeastern New Mexico.
 She said, "Oh, I've got a William Brazel in Carrizozo."
 Is that in Southeastern New Mexico?
 Yes, okay, let's take it.
 He had just gotten his phone two weeks before.
 How lucky can you get, I guess?
 One I planned, one of the people that shows up in a key picture that got very wide distribution
 is at that time Colonel Thomas Jefferson Dubose, Chief of Staff to General Roger Raimi, head
 of the Eighth Air Force, which is where the 509th was.
 This is in Fort Worth, Texas.
 I checked with West Point, son of a gun, he was still alive.
 He was in his 80s.
 He was very forthcoming when I went to visit him, and Don and I went down there and we
 have it on tape.
 I've got a DVD out there, our interview with General, retired General Dubose.
 You don't often get a chance to talk to a general about something this important.
 Several of us here will be speaking at the Roswell Festival, which is early July.
 Much of the early Roswell research, I better stress, was done before the internet.
 It was hard work finding people.
 You called information, hoped they knew something, and so forth.
 You're very lucky that today a key witness is right here, Colonel Jesse A. Marcel Jr.,
 a medical doctor, called back in the Army at age 68 to fight in Iraq, flew over 200
 combat hours as a flight surgeon in helicopters.
 His father was Major Jesse Marcel, and he also handled wreckage in 1947.
 There are many Roswell debunkers who do their research by proclamation, not investigation.
 Their motto is, "Don't bother me with the facts, my mind is made up.
 If the public doesn't know, I won't tell them."
 We've all found these people.
 As a physicist, I want facts, not fantasy.
 So I am most grateful for this opportunity to be here.
 Thank you very much.
 Our next witness is also a military officer.
 I'd like to just point out one thing that came up several days in the earlier hearings,
 and that was the fact that non-disclosure agreements were proffered, and many people
 were forced into signing these non-disclosure agreements.
 You take an oath when you go into the military, to the Constitution, not to the President,
 not to a general, not to an admiral.
 You take it to the Constitution to defend the country, and many times you have better
 judgment on what is defending the country than many of our leaders.
 So Colonel, with that caveat, I want you to come forward.
 First of all, let me point out that I prepared a document last night for you all that deals
 with Project Blue Book and how it was orchestrated to be closed by the military.
 It was a planned operation to end Project Blue Book completely, and that was circulated
 I think this morning.
 My name is Kevin Randall, and I'm a retired Lieutenant Colonel with more than 20 years
 of service with the Army, the Air Force, and the National Guard.
 I served on active duty as a helicopter pilot in Vietnam and as an intelligence officer
 in Iraq.
 I served on both active duty and in the active reserve with the Air Force and ended my military
 career as the provost marshal in the Iowa National Guard.
 I have published more than 20 books about UFOs, starting with the UFO case book in 1989
 and currently ending with alien mysteries, conspiracies, and cover-ups just this last
 month.
 I've been working on a book about what can be found in the government files about UFOs
 for the last several months.
 In 1988, I was at a science fiction convention and participated in a debate about UFOs with
 some of the top science fiction writers in the world.
 These included Frederick Pohl and I believe George R.R. Martin, who I mention here today
 just because of his success in recent months.
 When it was over, Don Schmidt talked to me about the Roswell UFO crash and said that
 the Center for UFO Studies was beginning some research into it.
 He thought my military background might be a benefit because many of the witnesses were
 retired military, and of course many of the witnesses had been members of the military
 at the time of the events.
 One of the first things I noticed was that Colonel Thomas Dubose had been identified
 as General Roger Ramey's aide, but brigadier generals don't have a full colonel as an aide.
 Dubose was the chief of staff, a much more important position.
 Dubose would later provide some very interesting testimony about what had been seen and done,
 including transferring the Roswell debris to SAC headquarters in Washington, D.C. at
 the time, all documented on videotape.
 We made our first trip to Roswell in February 1989.
 We started in Albuquerque and had a meeting with Frank Joyce, but when we arrived, Joyce
 begged off saying that he was ill.
 We met with a group of UFO researchers in Albuquerque, but they turned out to be a group
 of people more interested in the New Age phenomenon and not exactly UFO researchers.
 At any rate, they had nothing of interest for us and they had no insights into the Roswell
 case.
 We headed to Roswell and met with Cliff Stone.
 He knew a great deal about UFOs, but was unable to shed any insights into the Roswell case
 other than the crash site was beyond twin windmills.
 We thought this might be a really good clue until we saw how many twin windmills there
 were in New Mexico.
 Our last interview was with Bill Brazel, son of Mack, who had found the debris.
 I didn't hold out much hope for this, but when we met with him in Carrizoza, New Mexico,
 he was able to provide us with some very interesting information.
 We chatted for a few minutes and then Brazel said to us, "My dad found this thing," and
 we were off.
 Bill told us what had happened to his father Mack, how he had been held at the base in
 Roswell for a number of days, how he'd been asked not to talk about it.
 I suppose you could say he was sworn to secrecy, though there didn't seem to be any threats
 made to him and no documents signed.
 Mack didn't even tell his son Bill much about what he had seen.
 Bill told us that he was out on the ranch in the next couple of years where the object
 had crashed, or at least touched down briefly, where his dad had found this debris.
 He would look for some of it.
 He described for us on audio tape three items that he found over the years, a piece of wood-like
 material that was so tough he couldn't get a sliver on it when he tried to carving on
 it with his pocket knife, which he said he used to cut barbed wire.
 He said it was also that it was very lightweight, it was brown, it seemed to be like balsa wood.
 He found a bit of wire that he said you could shine a light into one end and it would come
 out the other, which of course is fiber optics.
 And he had a piece of foil, the famous foil, that could be crushed into a ball and then
 unfold itself without a sign of a wrinkle or a crease.
 Bill showed it to his father who said, "That looks like some of the contraption I found."
 At this point we realized that there was more than a misidentified weather balloon as the
 Air Force had suggested in 1947.
 It was clear from the descriptions of the material that Brazel himself had held, which
 he described for us was not something that had been manufactured on Earth.
 We knew that there was a lot more work to be done.
 I located former major, later retired Colonel, Edwin Easley, who was a provost marshal in
 the base in 1947.
 The provost marshal is similar to the chief of police in a city, but a provost marshal
 also has a number of other duties revolving around security.
 Easley, because this was an atomic strike force, had a greater responsibility of officers
 of a similar grade at other military installations.
 He told me on audio tape several times that he'd been sworn to secrecy.
 Finally, somewhat exasperated with my questions, he said, "I can't talk about it.
 I promised the president that I wouldn't."
 Now, I don't know if he talked to President Truman personally or a representative of the
 president, which is about the same thing, but whatever the circumstance, he believed
 he'd promised the president he wouldn't talk about it.
 Skeptics ask, "Would the president talk to a major?"
 And I say, "An obscure lieutenant colonel talked to the president, and the Doolittle
 raid was born."
 Easley confirmed that Brazel had been held on the base for several days.
 He said that Brazel was held in the guest house, which is not exactly jail.
 But if you have a guard on the door and you're not allowed to leave, it really doesn't matter
 how comfortable the quarters are, it still qualifies as a jail.
 I will note that we can prove Brazel was in Roswell after he first reported the find based
 on the documentation we have.
 Neighbors tell us he complained to them about being held there.
 Marion Strickland, one of the neighbors, said on videotape that Brazel had been gone for
 several days and he was mad about it.
 So Easley confirmed part of the story for us.
 Easley was also asked by me if the craft was extraterrestrial.
 What happened precisely is that I asked him if we were following the right path.
 He said, "What do you mean?"
 I said, "We think it was extraterrestrial," and he said, "Well, that's not the wrong path."
 Every member of Colonel Blanchard's staff, Blanchard being the commanding officer at
 Roswell at the time, and who later was in line to be chief of staff at the Air Force,
 gave us a variation of that.
 Major Jesse Marcel Sr., an Air Force intelligence officer at the time, said on videotape, "It
 seems that it was something that came to Earth, but it was not something made on Earth."
 Let me say here that the skeptics have attempted to slander the memory of Blanchard by suggesting
 he was a loose cannon, which explains his handling of the discovery and the press release
 that he ordered issued.
 But his ratings not long after the Roswell crash by his superior officers, he was rated
 quite high and there was nothing mentioned about the Roswell case.
 A loose cannon is not promoted to general and is not destined to be the chief of staff.
 Major Patrick Saunders, the base adjutant, who wouldn't talk much about the Roswell case
 when I interviewed him, did leave some documentation for us.
 He wrote on the flyleaf to the book, "UFO Crash at Roswell," "Here's the truth, and
 I still haven't told anybody anything," and he signed it pat.
 This page is called Damage Control, and it tells that files were altered, that they changed
 personnel records and the code words, and that the bodies and the craft were removed
 from Roswell.
 In a letter to his daughter, which he kindly sent to me, Saunders talked about how they
 had successfully hid the paper trail.
 Walter Hott, the man who wrote the press release announcing that they had captured a flying
 saucer, signed an affidavit about what he had seen, which included craft and bodies.
 Hott said that in his position as PIO, that he often operated as Colonel Blanchard's aid
 to camp, a colonel not being authorized in aid.
 There's been some controversy about Hott's statement because for 20 years that I knew
 him, he had always said that he just wrote the press release.
 He didn't know anything beyond that.
 He didn't see anything beyond that.
 Then in the affidavit signed and released after his death, he said that he had seen
 the bodies.
 There was a direct contradiction of what he had claimed.
 Ten years before that, I interviewed a fellow named Richard Harris.
 He was a finance officer at the Roswell Army Airfield, and he helped Patrick Saunders bury
 the expenditure of money.
 Let me digress here for just a moment.
 Everything has to be paid for by the military, or in the military, and all expenditures must
 be accounted for.
 You can't send an aircraft on a training flight, for example, without naming a funding
 source for that flight.
 Of course, you can have a cross-country training flight from Roswell to Wright Field in Dayton,
 Ohio, a perfectly legitimate expense, and you can always put the records of an alien
 craft or the bodies on the flight without having to note it.
 The flight is paid for out of the training budget, and there is no need to mention the
 genesis of the mission, which is to take the stuff to Ohio.
 So Harris confirmed some of what Saunders had said, but more importantly, he told me
 that he'd seen the bodies, or he had almost seen the bodies.
 According to Harris, he was in a hangar where the bodies were temporarily located, and Haught
 asked him if he wanted to see them.
 Harris said that he put his hand on the door knob, but he didn't turn it.
 This stunned me, given the chance I would have opened the door, but that's today in
 1947.
 Harris said that he didn't want to see that.
 But it confirms to an extent what Walter Haught said about seeing the bodies, and as I say,
 Harris told me this 10 years before Walter Haught mentioned anything like that.
 Now I have noticed I have just a minute left, and I had some interesting things I wanted
 to cover, but let me just say this.
 The Air Force claimed this was Project Mogul.
 The documentation suggests it was flight number four, but when we look at the diary created
 by Dr. Albert Crary, who is the leader of the project, he said flight number four had
 been canceled.
 There was no flight number four.
 There is a note that says that they had made it some kind of a test flight, but it's not
 part of the official record of the project in New Mexico.
 Mogul, by the way, was not highly classified.
 The equipment was off the shelf.
 What they were doing in New Mexico was published in the newspapers, and worse still, according
 to the documentation, these flights had to be announced in the FAA notums.
 These notices to airmen were items that could affect aerial navigation.
 An array of balloons, some 600 feet long, drifting along at tens of thousands of feet
 fit that definition.
 Moore was aware of that in 1995, wrote that they had not contacted the FAA because they
 didn't expect this mythical flight number four to leave the restricted area.
 I wanted to mention one final thing, and I see my time has expired.
 But on July 8th, they made the press release.
 On July 9th, according to the newspapers, the United Press reported, "Report to flying
 saucers whizzing through the sky fell off sharply today as the Army and the Navy began
 a concentrated campaign to stop the rumors."
 The question is, what happened to make them stop on July 9th when they had published everything
 else?
 I will say this, in 1947, the Air Force said what fell at Roswell was a weather balloon.
 When they made their investigation in the mid-1990s, they said they lied about this.
 It wasn't a weather balloon, it was a weather balloon.
 They just changed the name, it counted a cluster of balloons, it was nothing special about
 them, they were just weather balloons tethered together in a long train, but it did not answer
 the question.
 Why did the service members at Roswell fail to identify it as such?
 Why could they not identify a weather balloon, no matter what name you apply to it?
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you.
 And thank you for the brevity of your statements thus far.
 I want to clear up something, because we've got three Marcells there, and we're talking
 about your father, who was a major intelligence officer, is that correct?
 Yes.
 You're a colonel in the Army, that was a medical doctor in addition to that, and then you've
 got your son, you would be Marcell number two, he's Marcell number three, okay?
 And your position at this point, and then we've got Denise, who I presume is your wife?
 Sister.
 Sister, okay, so we've got the whole family here, and we're going to get testimony from
 all of you.
 We appreciate that, and so Colonel, please proceed.
 Yes, sir.
 I'm the son of Major Jesse Marcell, who was the intelligence officer for the 509th Composite
 Bomb Group based out of Roswell Army Airfield in 1947.
 The 509th, as you may recall, was the squadron who entered the war with the atomic bombing
 of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
 My dad's credentials obviously were very impressive.
 In the course of his career, he was not only one of the few officers selected for the 509th,
 but he also went to radar school and also was a staff member of the Air Force intelligence
 officer.
 The radar school was important because in that he would have been very familiar with
 all kinds of weather balloons and radar targets and the paraphernalia associated with this
 kind of a device, you know, weather balloon or mogul balloon, but a balloon is still a
 balloon with off-the-shelf material.
 I myself followed a career in medicine, graduating from the LSU School of Medicine in 1961, and
 I joined the military shortly after my graduation and internship.
 My first taste of the military was being stationed aboard the USS Renville, which is a troop
 transport ship destined for Cuba.
 We spent several weeks sitting around in circles south of Cuba in preparation for the invasion,
 which fortunately never happened, or else I wouldn't be here.
 Yeah, really.
 And I ended my career as an Army colonel in December 2005 after a 13-month tour in Iraq
 where I gained 200 hours of combat flying and, you know, things like that, just having fun
 out there really.
 I did not come home entirely unscathed, however, I got severe PTSD from all the rigor, and
 also I developed a weakness in my legs that they think is related to some sort of toxic
 contamination that I became exposed to in Iraq, but that's neither here nor there.
 And my story for the Roswell part began in the wee hours in the morning of July 1947,
 when I was awakened by my dad who was returning from an assignment to collect debris of unknown
 origin from a ranch out of Roswell.
 This is the Foster Ranch and this is the debris that Mack Brazel had run across.
 Apparently the rancher, by the name of Mack Brazel, notified the local sheriff of Chavez
 County of the downing of some sort of aircraft on his land.
 He was not quite sure what the nature of this was.
 He'd seen weather balloons, you know, go down there before, so he was not sure it was that
 either, but it was something very different.
 The sheriff in Chavez County contacted Colonel Blanchard, who was the commander of the Air
 Force Base in Roswell.
 Now Colonel Blanchard knew my dad was the intelligence officer, so he dispatched my
 dad and a CIC agent, Sheridan Cavill, to investigate what this was, whether it was one of our planes
 or just whatever, just an unknown crash site.
 So it was their job to go ahead and ascertain what was out there and bring representative
 portions of this back to the base so they could study it to determine, make a final
 determination of this.
 As it turns out, our house happened to be on the way to the base, and this is in the
 wee hours of the morning.
 So my dad, knowing that he had seen something very special, wanted my mother and myself
 to look at this also, because as he said, you'll never see this again.
 So what he did, he stopped off at the house, awakened my mother and myself, and again the
 wee hours of the morning, it was summertime, I'd been playing all day with my bicycles
 and things like that.
 I was 11 years old at the time, however, and he brought us into the kitchen and saw a smattering
 of this strange debris on the kitchen floor that he had prepositioned.
 He said, "Look at this.
 I think this is what you call a flying saucer or remains thereof."
 I was not quite sure what a flying saucer was at that time, because I was more interested
 in bicycling and using my 22 rifle for practice.
 But at any rate, the first thing he wanted us to do, or me particularly, was to check
 the debris out, make sure there was no electronic components there, looking for vacuum tubes,
 resistors, condensers, and things like that.
 But there wasn't any, and he already knew that, but he wanted me to satisfy my own curiosity
 as is.
 The debris itself consisted of three components, three types.
 There was a foil, a very tough metallic foil of some nature that I can't really describe.
 I had to add that I did not see the bending and unbending of it, but my dad witnessed
 it.
 He said if you folded over, it'd unfold and assume its original form.
 In addition, there was a black plastic debris, like a broken phonograph record.
 But the strangest thing I saw as being passed around right now was that this is a replica
 of one of the I-beams, or the beams I saw in the wreckage.
 In that, you'll note there's some symbols written along the inside surface of this,
 and they're a purplish-violet hue, semi-reflective of light.
 But this is basically what this was.
 Is this a replica?
 Yes, sir.
 This is a replica.
 If it was original, I wouldn't have it.
 Well, you never know, that's why we're asking.
 That's right.
 But anyway, my dad drove the debris into the base that night, I think it was that night
 or maybe early next morning, where he was assigned by Colonel Blanchard to fly the material
 to General Ramey's office in Fort Worth.
 This was flown in the belly of a B-29 under armed guard.
 So I then saw a picture of my dad taken in General Ramey's office, holding what was obviously
 a radar target.
 They had already switched the debris.
 And the look on his face is quite telling, he says, "You've got to be kidding me.
 This is not what I saw, and this is not what I saw either."
 But anyway, that's where the cover began, in General Ramey's office.
 So when my dad got home, he sat my mother and myself down and said in no uncertain terms,
 "You will never talk about this.
 This is a non-event."
 And yes, sir, I was normally a brat, so I was following orders.
 So I never discussed this with my friends or anybody else until after Stan Friedman
 interviewed my dad in 1978.
 Great.
 Thank you very much.
 Let me reemphasize, as a military officer, you took an oath to the Constitution, not
 to General Ramey or to anybody else.
 It's the Constitution.
 We move now to your son, Jesse, the third.
 The third, yep.
 Marcel.
 Marcel is a French name?
 Marcel?
 Thank you to the distinguished members of the committee.
 I am here today not to speak as an expert witness to what I have heard and researched
 about Roswell, but simply to help you get to know two great men, my grandfather, Major
 Jesse Marcel Sr., and my father, Dr. Jesse Marcel.
 My grandfather was a simple man who just wanted to lead a simple life.
 Closer to the mic, please.
 Sorry.
 I could restate that.
 My grandfather was a simple man who just wanted to lead a simple life, starting at a very
 early age when he wasn't helping the family with the farm.
 He would sneak away to find parts to build radios.
 Later in his life, before entering the war, he would use his skills to build a ham radio
 that would become a Lafayette Passion.
 He would spend endless hours chatting with people from around the world.
 Things would change rapidly as we were pulled into the Second World War.
 On his own accord, he went from his job as a civilian draftsman to joining the war effort
 where he excelled in his duties from the very beginning.
 His superiors recognized his aptitude towards problem-solving and sent him to an intelligence
 school.
 Again, he excelled in his courses and was asked to teach the next incoming class.
 He would eventually end up in the Roswell Air Force Base working in our nuclear bombing
 program with the 519th Composite.
 With the war over and a life returning to a sense of normalcy, Grandpa would receive
 a simple order, an order that would change his and most of our lives forever.
 The heavens would open up and send us a visitor that would establish the words "alien" and
 "flying saucer" in the English vernacular, and it was him they sent to investigate.
 Decades later, my father followed in Grandpa's footsteps as a military man serving the Navy
 to train to be a medical doctor.
 Soon after, he would settle down in Clancy, Montana to raise a family and continue in
 the reserves to become a helicopter pilot.
 As the only NT, I remember as a child going with my father on his rounds, not the ones
 at the hospital, but the ones where he would visit his parents in their homes.
 He would carry in his little black bag and take care of his patients in the same caring
 way he would take care of the rest of us.
 Back in the office, if a child showed up in ratty shoes to his appointment, a new pair
 would be waiting for him on their next visit.
 I remember very fondly watching him not only build a oscilloscope, but his design and construction
 of a computer guidance system for the oscilloscope long before there was such a thing, at least
 on an amateur level.
 He would spend endless hours wrapping small green glass switches that would eventually
 become the brain.
 In the summer, we would all pile into a van, RV or whatever form of transportation that
 we'd have available to us and head to home Louisiana, where my grandparents had lived
 or had returned to live out the rest of their lives.
 I remember so clearly driving down a shell-covered road leading out to their house with the most
 notable feature being a huge greenhouse that easily equaled the size of their residence
 that my grandfather lovingly built for his wife, Vio.
 My grandmother had a green thumb like no other.
 My father would send her a tomato plant that would barely survive the short Montana summers
 into immense vegetation that would reach the floor to ceiling.
 Each morning, my grandfather would lead me to his shop, occupying a space in the house
 in the garage.
 He'd reach up into the rafters and pull down fishing poles that had been there for decades.
 These poles were not made of fiberglass, but of bamboo, very simple, but effective in their
 trade.
 I recall leaning against a table saw in his workshop, watching him attach the reel with
 the hand that was missing a digit from some long ago battle with that same table saw.
 He would add the weights and the bobber from two rusty old tackle boxes and finish the
 session off by showing me how to delicately hook the worm without injuring myself.
 All this was not always the case.
 We'd make our way to the back door and out on his lawn that ran up against a bayou.
 After a couple of casts, we could sit back and talk and enjoy each other's company.
 My grandfather's other great obsessions were sports.
 LSU provided the teams that he most favored and occupied his weekend TV viewing hours.
 I'll always remember grandpa as a gentle giant who somehow lived the life of a southern gentleman
 who would be at least partially responsible for change in the way people of our world
 would look into the night skies, and think to themselves, "Maybe, just maybe, somebody
 was looking back."
 Today, I share these same stories I learned as a child with my own kids, rousal as a new
 type of conversation between the kids and their teachers in elementary school.
 The legacy will go on.
 Thank you.
 Thank you very much.
 And now for your sister.
 Well, first of all, I also want to thank the committee for taking the time to listen to
 our family's history.
 My name is Denise Marcel.
 I am the granddaughter of Major Jesse Marcel, Sr., and the daughter of retired Colonel Dr.
 Marcel, Jr.
 My grandfather was the first military officer at a UFO crash site in Roswell, New Mexico.
 While there, he collected some of the crash site debris.
 He was so amazed by the characteristics of the debris, he decided he had to show my father
 and grandmother.
 And whatever it was that they had seen, it has had a great impact on our family.
 When we moved to Clancy, Montana in the early '70s, my father built a telescope in our backyard.
 Now, this wasn't one of your average, ordinary telescopes.
 To start, he dug a hole in our backyard the size of a small room.
 For months, I remember my mother and us kids helping him polish this very large mirror.
 From there, he began constructing the telescope, including building a rotating dome.
 This was a telescope that was later loaned to the Helena Astronomy Association.
 And he had built this from top to bottom.
 My dad was a man who had witnessed something.
 This was a man who was driven.
 That telescope opened up a whole new world for our family.
 It was around the age of nine that I first became aware of UFOs, not only because of
 the telescope, but also because there were times my father and us kids would camp out
 at night specifically looking for movement in the skies hoping to catch a glimpse of
 a UFO.
 One has to remember, we didn't have the Internet then, and UFOs were not discussed like they
 are today.
 I do not think that my parents would lead us to believe at such a young age that UFOs
 existed if my father and grandfather had not witnessed something extraordinary.
 In January of 1997, I accompanied my father and Kent Jeffreys to Washington, D.C. for
 a hypnosis session that Dr. Neil Hibbler would conduct over the course of three days.
 Dr. Hibbler was one of the world's leading experts who used hypnotic regressions for
 forensic purposes.
 I had been very fortunate to be able to participate because I had just been certified as a hypnotherapist.
 The sessions were successful.
 While under hypnosis, my father said he couldn't believe how vividly he could see his dad.
 I saw the emotion in his face and how it touched his heart seeing his father so clearly that
 day.
 During the sessions, my father recalls being woken up by my grandfather telling him to
 come and look at a piece of a flying saucer, a term in which most people, including himself,
 was not familiar with.
 When asked about the materials, my father's descriptions did not waver from what he had
 been describing throughout the years.
 One of the more interesting facets of the debris descriptions are the symbols or hieroglyphics
 that my father had seen on the eye beam.
 While under hypnosis, the facts remain the same.
 Just like when he was a child, he motioned grabbing the eye beam and holding it above
 his head to get a better look at the purple reflecting symbols.
 The military claimed that these symbols were merely Christmas-wrapped tape, but it is very
 unlikely and does not seem possible that three people did not recognize simple holiday decorations
 on some Scotch tape.
 Another interesting fact my father recalled was that soon after the incident, his father
 told the family never to talk about it again, that it was a non-event.
 Now why would they have to remain silent about a weather or a blue night doesn't make any
 sense to me.
 It has been said that since my father did not remember anything new from those sessions
 and did not remember seeing any exotic debris, electronic components or anything that resembled
 motors which they were specifically looking for, this material could not have been from
 a UFO, that the material was just too mundane.
 I believe this argument works against itself because if it had been some radar device there
 should have been some very basic electronic components and it would have been mundane.
 Therefore my grandfather would never have brought it home to show his family.
 The only explanation that he brought this home was because he was very excited about
 what he had found.
 My grandfather and father were very dedicated military men and always followed through with
 their orders.
 They both remained silent to the public about the incident until my grandfather had been
 approached by Stanton Friedman nearly 30 years after the event.
 During interviews my grandfather was asked about the materials and he would say, "It
 was not anything from this earth that I am quite sure of."
 These words would change the course of the Marcel family.
 The reason he was ordered to go to the site was because he was an intelligence officer
 familiar with most all of the materials used in aircraft and travel.
 He was very qualified to make an assessment of the crash site debris.
 And for the record, my grandfather had nothing to gain when he spoke to Stanton Friedman.
 He just felt the same way that I do, that the world should know the truth.
 It has affected my family's life in so many good ways and some bad, but because of this
 I was also given the greatest gift of all and that is to have an open mind.
 I feel that sometimes agendas are put in front of our rights of being citizens and not everything
 that the government has told us is the truth.
 Because when it comes to the Roswell incident, I believe my grandfather and my father.
 Last and certainly not least, it is my hope that for my father, my grandfather and all
 of the other wonderful people who have found the courage to step up and tell the truth
 this week will be given the respect and recognition that they deserve.
 Thank you.
 I just want to say that the Marcel family has a very close friend and his name is Richard
 O'Connor.
 I don't know if you've seen what he's put forward to support you.
 So he's a friend of yours.
 I want to now turn to, for the members' sake, we have seven minutes that we can delve into
 with these people.
 And I'll first turn to Merrill Cook to start the process.
 Yes, that's right.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Donald Schmidt, I'd like to start with you.
 You said that you went down to New Mexico with an idea of doing something in the fiction
 area.
 You weren't really much of a believer.
 No.
 No.
 But it changed your mind.
 That was Kevin Randall and myself, correct.
 And what changed your mind is you said you met with first-hand witnesses.
 Correct.
 I'd like to know what year that was.
 That was February of 1989.
 Okay.
 And could you tell me who those first-hand witnesses you met with?
 Dr. Randall had mentioned specifically it was the son of W.W. Mack Brazzo, Bill Brazzo
 Jr., and we could also add his wife, Shirley, who were both first-hand witnesses to the
 material.
 So you talked to them on that occasion.
 We had the opportunity at that time and many times thereafter, including other members
 of the Brazzo family.
 What we could also point out is that Bill Jr., the son of the rancher, was fortunate
 enough to discover additional remnants from the crash.
 Months thereafter, especially after heavy rains, pieces washed the surface.
 Now bear in mind, we already had first-hand accounts that there were 50 to 60 troops at
 the debris field site for the course of two and a half to three days walking shoulder
 to shoulder with wheelbarrows, going to check sites.
 It required that much time to clear this site in contrast to a weather balloon, which would
 have taken all of them a few minutes for someone to toss over their shoulder, toss into the
 back of a pickup truck.
 I have almost no doubt that something crashed there, that there was a lot of pickup, and
 I just wonder exactly who it was you.
 You talked to me.
 You've answered that very well.
 We've got a lot of witnesses here that really want an opportunity to talk to up.
 Lieutenant Colonel Randall, you had talked about work you've done to show why Air Force
 Project Blue Book was, you used some rather negative language about it, and why it was
 just, a cover-up is what you said?
 What happened in, all during the 1960s, there is a series of letters you see in the Project
 Blue Book files where they're requesting to get Project Blue Book out of A-Tech into the
 Secretary of the Air Force's Office of Information to de-emphasize the importance of Project
 Blue Book.
 Okay, now de-emphasizing the importance of Project Blue Book, that's not exactly the
 same thing, and that's, when I look at, I'm not trying to put any words in your mouth,
 but I've got to focus in on a question here, and that's when the University of Colorado
 was asked to help him make a decision about Project Blue Book, let's put it that way,
 and when the University of Colorado wrote a report, I think you're all correct in saying
 that what the report said wasn't exactly the way it was characterized even by the, certainly
 by the government, and even by, well, and by the media as well, but isn't it true that
 it didn't say anything about it all being nonsense, it just said we don't want to fund
 additional work on collection, collecting this data, that we are publishing to the world,
 I mean, there are 101 incidents published that we can read about from Project Blue Book,
 am I correct?
 What I'm asking is, you have absolutely no faith, and that's fine, in the National Science
 Foundation, is that what you're telling us?
 What I'm saying is that the outcome of the scientific investigation was preordained.
 There's a letter from Lieutenant Colonel Hippler to committee members at the Condon Committee
 at the University of Colorado saying, this is what we want you to find.
 They haven't investigated a case, they haven't looked at anything, but here's what we want
 you to find.
 You have to say something nice about the Air Force investigation, you have to say that
 it does not affect national security, and allow us to close it down, because if you
 don't do that, we're going to be stuck with this for another 20 years.
 So the University of Colorado pulled the wool over the National Science Foundation, folks,
 is that what you're telling us?
 Yes.
 During the investigation.
 They couldn't figure out that maybe there was influence from the Air Force on what Colorado
 was?
 They didn't care.
 The whole purpose of the Condon Committee was to end Project Blue Book and stop the Air
 Force investigation.
 During the Condon Committee's time in session, they were supposed to investigate cases that
 came up.
 There was a marvelous case from Shag Harbor, Canada, where something was photographed in
 the air, it was seen to hit the ground.
 The United States Navy responded, the Canadian military forces responded, and there's even
 evidence that the Russians responded.
 The Condon Committee's investigation was to make a phone call to Canada and say, oh, it's
 just a couple of teenagers who saw something strange, we're not going to bother with it.
 And I appreciate your answer, I'm going to move on, not because I don't want you to have
 more opportunity, but I'm so particularly interested in what Colonel Marcel, Dr. Colonel,
 and boy, you should be proud of these children and grandchildren of Jenny, Jesse Senior.
 You have done a wonderful job in establishing, you know, just that story about the fishing
 pole.
 And you're talking about an honest grandfather, I mean, you didn't have to even use that word,
 the way you described that, and to you too, Denise.
 And I'm very impressed with you, Jesse Marcel Jr., I mean, you're one of the very few witnesses
 that have actually held or seen or accompanied your father with something in your hand that
 came from this incident or an incident that, let me put it this way, somebody that's a
 friend of mine, somebody that I've listened to, somebody I already said I had respect
 for, a different party, but former Governor Bill Richardson has said to me and others
 with us in a discussion we had with him that everything you have said is honest.
 There's no question in his mind that that debris is there, it happened, and what you've
 said about your father and doing all that is absolutely true.
 What you've said to me here directly simply reinforces something I believe because I have
 a lot of faith in the integrity of the man I just mentioned, Bill Richardson.
 But I have to say this, I'm looking at you straight in the eyes here.
 I know that you believe that's from an extraterrestrial source, but can you say honestly to this committee
 that you know that for some reason or that there's something that you absolutely know
 that the government is hiding because Bill Richardson agrees with you that they should
 open the files, I agree with you, they should open those Roswell files.
 We should see exactly what might remain from whatever you and your father took over.
 So yeah, you give this committee a lot of reasons for us to say open those files.
 But I just want to hear an answer to the question I gave you.
 Years ago I was called to Washington, I was going to a meeting, and there was a gentleman
 by the name of Dick DiMatto who wanted to interview me when I got to Washington.
 And he was in the Capitol building, Senate room 228 I believe if I remember right.
 But he said he wanted to talk to me about what I saw in Roswell.
 So I went up to the Capitol building, and very friendly, very nice gentleman.
 He says, you know, we want to talk about what you saw in Roswell.
 And he asked me, did I want to talk in a secure room?
 And I said, well, sir, I'm not going to say anything I haven't said publicly already.
 He says, but I might tell you something.
 And so we'll talk in a secure room.
 So we went down into the basements, several floors down below in the Capitol building,
 and there was this beautiful meeting room there with a big table there with the pictures
 of our founding fathers across the overhead there.
 And when we sat down, he sat at the head of the table, I sat to his right.
 He had a legal pad to take notes on.
 And there was a book on the table too, it was called Majestic.
 It was a book by Whitley Strieber, which actually is a fictional account of an established fact
 there.
 And he said, this is not fiction.
 So he admitted to me right there, this is not fiction.
 This is a story about the Roswell, you know, anti-fictionalized version.
 And so as a conclusion, you came to after you had a chance to listen to some people
 that had analyzed some of that material, am I correct in that?
 Yes.
 And I'm not necessarily saying you may have been right or wrong on that.
 I'm just wanting to know how you arrived at your decision that you believe it is from
 non-terrestrial sources or extra-terrestrial sources.
 Well, you know, this is the first time somebody in the, you know, in the re-sanctions of
 our government admitted to me that this is not fiction, the Roswell.
 And I said, I know it isn't.
 So when are you guys going to tell the public about this?
 And he said, well, you know, if it was up to me, you ought to have done it yesterday.
 But he says, it is not up to me.
 I'm just here to investigate the cost of the investigates cost of keeping a secret and
 all that.
 He said, in reality, there is, and these are his words, that there is a black government,
 which sounds really conspiratorial, but that's what he said.
 He said, they have control of the debris and they answer to no one, they're not elected
 and have unlimited funds to spend.
 And he said, they're the ones who have it and they have control over it.
 So you can tell me what that meant.
 But that's what he said.
 I obviously don't know, but thank you very much.
 Yes, sir.
 Thank you.
 To all of you for testifying, you did a great job.
 How long, I mean, I look at what happened at Roswell as a, something that happened a
 long time ago and that there was some put down of it and there's been some fun made
 out of it.
 But that a lot of people, because there were enough information, enough facts out that
 a lot of people believed that something happened there.
 Is that, am I way off base?
 I mean, I'm just trying to think back a few years because it hasn't been in the paper
 recently, you know, but that's my recollection of that incident, that there was enough proof
 that we knew it was something other than from the United States.
 Yeah, Donald?
 As I'd mentioned in my opening statement, I'd like to emphasize that we had the good
 fortune of working with and having enlisted the late Congressman Steven Schiff of New
 Mexico who pushed for congressional hearings on this very matter through the early 90s.
 And so much so that he had sent three separate letters to then Secretary of Defense Les Aspin,
 which all went unanswered, which only intrigued him and raised his curiosity all the more
 as far as, well, what are they hiding?
 I'm just asking, as the late Senator Barry Goldwater and even his request to General
 Curtis LeMay, can I at least see the file to which LeMay said, "Hell, no, and don't
 ever ask me again."
 So we're in good company, whether we're talking about Goldwater or Schiff or even former Presidents
 Bill Clinton or Carter, who also would lament the fact that they could not get the truth
 about Roswell.
 But getting back to Congressman Schiff, in his failed efforts, as the press itself became
 more interested as to who would win this tug of war, because he was being stonewalled not
 only by the Secretary of Defense, but also the White House, and then the branches of
 the military.
 And he had assurances, specifically from the Air Force, that should they find anything
 in their files, he would be the first one.
 Well, as Newsweek magazine very aptly put it, as though a preemptive strike, they called
 a press conference here at the Pentagon, and Colonel Richard Weaver, as Colonel Randall
 mentioned, in putting out the Project Mogul theory, same balloon, it was just a redesign
 of the same balloon explanation.
 Now I'll never forget how I called up Congressman Schiff here in his office in Washington, thinking
 that, well, that would end that relationship, because he would have to accept that new explanation,
 that new solution to the Roswell mystery.
 And his immediate words, immediate response to me was, "Don, they're a bunch of damn
 liars."
 And he had assured us, and you know the history, he assured us that with his re-election coming
 up, that we would then resume the effort.
 Well, he would die shortly after his re-election, age of 51.
 We don't read anything into that except that we lost a tremendous ally.
 And in that, there was a lot of that publicity, the fact that someone within the government
 was actually sticking their nose under the curtain, under the tent, for nothing more
 than asking to see the files, and still being turned down, still being told just as Senator
 Goldwater, "Hell no, and don't ask."
 There was debris, it crashed, there was debris, and talked about touching the debris, and
 that it was not something that you'd ever felt or done before.
 Is that still around, the debris from that?
 Not with us, it isn't.
 That's the problem.
 We don't have the debris.
 We don't have pieces.
 What happened to it?
 It probably got sent to Wright Field when we know that it got sent.
 Where it went from there, whether it went to Area 51, or who knows what, we don't know.
 The security curtain slammed down very quickly.
 How quickly afterwards?
 Five hours.
 How many?
 Five hours.
 From the actual announcement of the recovery of the flying disc, it evolved, as I mentioned,
 within five hours into the weather balloon.
 In fact, as Stanton mentioned, and we have Brigadier General Thomas DeBose, who is even
 in two of the pictures with the substituted weather balloon.
 He stated that the balloon was a hoax, that part of it.
 They were ordered, as he described, to get the press off of General Ramey's back.
 They were the ones who substituted the balloon for the real material.
 When you have a Brigadier General going on the record, actually stating that the official
 government explanation is a hoax, you would think it would get the media's attention.
 That's also the dilemma that we have had with the very conception of the investigation of
 the Roswell incident, the fact that, well, why don't the witnesses come forward?
 Because just as Jesse's father, just imagine, at that time, he was a lieutenant colonel.
 He was the head of intelligence of the 509th Bomb Group.
 Again, I can't use the word enough, the elite within the military, head of intelligence.
 We might even ask, why would the base commander, Colonel Blanchard, instead of just sending
 out a couple of grunts, a couple of enlisted men to go check out this funny material, he
 sends out his two head of intelligence, two officers, follow the rancher back and investigate
 this firsthand on a Fourth of July weekend, no less.
 See, these are all the questions that the press refuses to look into, but we haven't.
 That dilemma, that as Major Marcel, when he finally stepped forward and said, being familiar
 with all materials, both familiar and domestic, this was something not made on this earth.
 We didn't read about this in the papers, did we?
 It wasn't on the CBS Evening News.
 The only publication to touch that was the National Enquirer.
 So we wonder why there's this constant taboo, this ridicule factor, and it's the very reason
 that witnesses have refused to come forward after all these years because they know how
 it's going to be treated.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 I'm going to ask Colonel Randall.
 What is the significance of the July 1947 Roswell incident in that we also had a significant
 one in July of 1945?
 Tell me.
 What is the significance?
 Well, the events in Roswell in 1947 set up the entire cover-up.
 At that point ... Cover-up of what?
 Cover-up of the alien visitation.
 What we look at is, after the Kenneth Arnold signing on June 24, 1947, there was an awful
 lot of stories in the newspapers about flying saucers.
 There was all kinds of discussion about what they were.
 One scientist postulated that if you left a dark movie theater and you walked out into
 the bright sunlight, you'd see spots in front of your eyes.
 This is what people were seeing.
 Didn't explain why the spots were black instead of silver.
 There were military officers making comments.
 At one point, one officer said, "Well, we're not interested in the flying saucers anymore."
 Okay, stop.
 I don't want to know the editorial.
 I want to know what, about the Roswell incident, began the cover-up.
 You just said it.
 No, don't give me the editorial pile.
 Just stay on that part.
 Stay on the scientific part right there.
 What happened at Roswell, the cover-up of the alien, whatever we think that is.
 I hate that word, or whatever that is.
 Why, even yet today, why?
 In 1947, we'd just come out of a war.
 We are worried about our competitors in the world.
 If we can exploit this find, discover the propulsion system, discover the materials, how they work,
 we take a huge step ahead of our competitors and the rest of the world.
 In 1947, it makes perfect sense.
 We don't want people talking about this.
 The Russians aren't going to spy on us if they don't think there's anything there to
 spy on, so they've eliminated our competitors.
 Why it persists today, I am somewhat puzzled about, because it would seem that we've become
 much more sophisticated, and we would understand what's going on in the world around us and
 space around us.
 Unless we still don't understand.
 I think the problem is we haven't decoded the materials.
 Okay.
 Thank you, sir.
 That was good.
 Now you guys who know these people, you don't get to be a major in any of our militaries
 unless you're a well-respected, highly decorated individual about our nation, our family, and
 who we are, and that with your father, sir.
 Congratulations on that.
 As 11 years old, if you testify today, you witnessed the Roswell Incident's crash.
 I'm saying crash.
 You might've called it something else.
 Crash is good, okay.
 You witnessed particles from the crash, balloon notwithstanding, whatever else they said not
 withstanding, actually saw particles of what the craft may or may not have been.
 Did you not?
 Yes, ma'am.
 Decorated father, you're now a Colonel, a medical doctor, and the Roswell Incident continues
 to be mysterious to some, factual to many.
 You had firsthand information and now your children who have lived with a grandfather
 and a father they've respected of high decorated ability and consequence and served in our
 military.
 Military has a special emphasis in most countries and certainly in ours.
 That's why everybody who testified in these three days to me, who's ever military, have
 the highest respect for this service and dedication.
 What would you offer to this committee at this time on this issue, Roswell, that would
 help me to understand and the rest of us as well?
 Where we go from here, what you've seen, you've already kind of gave us a sample of it and
 all of that.
 What else should we know before we get up from here today?
 Well, I think what it does, it tells us that we are not alone in the universe.
 As a matter of fact, there's other civilizations out there and they're finding Earth-like
 planets around other store systems every day.
 That means that we are probably just beginners, new kids on the block, so to speak.
 They are obviously more advanced than we are in their science and hopefully their cultural
 abilities too, that they can get here from wherever they come from.
 It also means that they survive their nuclear destructive abilities too.
 I think any civilization that develops into the space travel has gone through a nuclear
 age and we're still on the precipice of either surviving or not surviving ours, but it means
 they did.
 If they can do it, we can also survive our nuclear war-like tendencies.
 My last final point for me, are you aware through your father or own experiences that
 we chase their aircraft or we have an occasion and obviously they have traced ours?
 Does that exist and if so, why and did we find anything?
 Did they catch us or are we gone or what?
 Well, I just know what I'm reading in the papers.
 Okay, that's okay.
 Don't speculate.
 I'm just an observer of one event there and I have a lot of theories, but
 I bet.
 I'll talk to you offline on those.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Thank you very much.
 I yield back.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 I yield back to Congresswoman Linda Wolfson.
 Thank you.
 There's just so much and it'syou justyou, Marcells, I mean, don't you all worry that
 this isn't going to be resolved in your lifetime?
 I mean, good grief, tick, tick, tick.
 Here we are.
 I mean, whatyou know, gray hair and gray hair and
 I'm 76.
 Some pretty old people, the three of us, but I mean, then your story, then what happens
 to your story?
 I mean, it'sand your story, the truth, but it's so much more meaningful when it
 comes from you.
 Well, as a 76-year-old, you know, I'm no spring chicken, but, you know, I like to tell
 my story.
 I don't want to embellish it, not tell exactly what I knew about this, and if people want
 to believe this, that's okay.
 If they don't want to believe it, that's also okay.
 That's their opinion.
 I would certainly like to have the government spill the beans about this while I'm still
 alive to say, "I told you so," but, I mean, I'd bebut it doesn't matter.
 I've been there and done that, so I know what it was.
 Okay.
 All of you experts, how many actual ETs have beenI'm going to start saying that instead
 of the big long wordhave been involved in starting with the Roswell and the two years
 before.
 Wasn't there an actual personnot personliving being, living something as part of that crash
 before you said that somebody was offered to go in and see, you know, the remains of
 something?
 The story was, Walter Haught, as the public information officer, had issued the press
 release saying that he had retrieved a crash-flying saucer.
 In the years that followed, he just said, "All I did was write the press release."
 Right.
 Upon his, Don Schmidt and Tom Carey put together, working with Walter Haught and his family,
 put together an affidavit to be released after he passed away, giving much more information,
 and he talked about having actually seen the bodies of the aliens and more about that.
 The important thing was this Richard Harris, who was a financial officer at Roswell in
 1947, told me long before Walter admitted to that, that Walter had takenor seen him
 in a hangar and said, "If you want to see something really incredible, it's beyond
 that door," and Harris didn't want to go in there and see the bodies, but it was the
 body of the alien craft.
 The other part of the question is, did one survive the crash?
 There has been testimony from a number of witnesses, yes, that one survived the craft
 and was in captivity.
 I hesitate to use that word because it really wasn't in captivity, but it was held for
 a number of years.
 Can you think of anything that would be more lonely than that?
 You're an alien creature on a planet.
 You have absolutely no possibility of getting home.
 You're dealing with a bunch of sentient beings that do not understand you, your culture,
 or your language, and you're stuck on this planet without any hope of rescue.
 It sounds like a Steven Spielberg movie.
 But the point is, there is some testimony that suggests that one may have survived for
 a period of time.
 I believe the date of its supposed death was in 1952.
 Well, since then, okay, since then?
 One of the things beyond first-hand witnesses to the materials, to the wreckage, to the
 characteristics that even by today's standards defy conventional explanation have been, sadly,
 but also much to the credit, again, of the witnesses in maintaining that sacred oath
 to the Constitution, that so many of them, to their very deathbeds, before they would
 finally confide to their spouses, to their children, and invariably, they all talk about
 the little people, the little men.
 They all describe either having been out at the site and having witnessed the bodies,
 or they were posted at the hangar, P3, Building 84, at the Roswell Army Airfield, where they
 were on guard, and they would observe the wooden crates being assembled and the bodies
 being placed into these boxes before being shipped out.
 Shipped out to where?
 Well, we have the documentation, again, and we have the eyewitness testimony right field
 in Dayton, Ohio.
 We have the late Brigadier General Arthur Exon, who was with Foreign Technology Division,
 which did the testing, the reverse engineering of captured weaponry and armory from World
 War II.
 So it made perfect sense that you had something crash of either foreign or something beyond
 that design.
 It would go to foreign technology.
 And Exon described, not firsthand, but that he was aware of the fact that when the materials
 from Roswell arrived, when they came in, it was the first impression, because no one was
 able to recognize this wreckage, that it most likely was Soviet.
 But after it was tested, he described that there was a unanimous consensus that the materials
 had to be from space.
 So any of that recently?
 I mean, that was quite a while ago.
 We've conducted to date three archaeological digs at the debris field site, the very site
 that had this huge debris field that canvassed an area of almost three quarters of a mile
 long, hundreds of feet wide.
 Where is it?
 This is just outside of Corona, New Mexico.
 It's about 65 miles northwest of Roswell.
 This is where the rancher first reported the find and then led the two intelligence officers,
 Major Marcel and the head of counterintelligence, Captain Sheridan Cavett.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Thank you.
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you, Congressman.
 Did your father, Colonel, mention seeing bodies?
 Actually, the closest that came to it, my wife asked me one day, "Did you see the bodies?"
 And he said, "No, I did not see them myself, but I knew people who did."
 But what?
 He knew people who did see the bodies, but he did not see them himself.
 Okay.
 I need a blanket statement right there.
 My wife is the one who asked me, finally came out and asked me.
 Who were the people that saw the bodies?
 He did not elaborate, so I'm not sure who he was.
 But to answer the question, no, he did not see the bodies.
 Okay.
 I'm trying to understand the sequence of events, what happened here.
 You mentioned, Mr. Smith, that they sent two officers there when ordinarily they would
 have sent some lower level people to investigate.
 What was unusual, when they simply got the word from the rancher that something had crashed,
 why would they think that was unusual enough to send officers?
 That is the question.
 Yeah.
 What is it?
 And again, especially on a Fourth of July weekend, that it would have been brought to
 the attention.
 Now, keep in mind, the rancher did not go to the military.
 He reported this to the sheriff, Sheriff George Wilcox of Chavez County, headquartered in Roswell.
 And it was only due to the fact that it was a reporter by the name of Frank Joyce from
 radio station KGFL, who suggested, "This sounds like a military matter.
 You should report this to the 509th."
 And they, in turn, the sheriff contacts the base, personally speaks to Major Marcel, who
 was at the PX having a sandwich.
 And it's important enough, again, Fourth of July weekend, that he alerts the very base
 commander, Colonel William Blanchard.
 And after examining the material, if it was nothing more mundane than a weather balloon,
 or even an aircraft, a rocket, an errant rocket.
 We were testing German V-2 rockets over at White Sands at that time.
 It was still unusual enough that he would dispatch the two head of intelligence.
 And we believe the reason he also sent the head of counterintelligence, Plane Close,
 Captain Sheridan Cabot, was in the event it was something foreign, that he would be the
 most capable of identifying it if it was something foreign.
 Did the rancher go to the site before the military?
 Yes.
 He was the one who first discovered the briefing.
 But we don't know specifically what the rancher reported.
 He must have reported something somewhat unusual for them to send two officers rather than
 two enlisted men.
 He brought some of the wreckage with him.
 Yes.
 Okay, okay.
 He drove into the sheriff's office, the sheriff calls the base, Major Marcel goes and checks
 it out, and as he told me, there wasn't anything conventional there.
 But the rancher also stressed that there's a huge amount of this stuff out at the ranch.
 Yeah.
 Three-quarters of a mile, a few hundred yards wide, that's a lot of stuff.
 And what he was worried about was that his sheep wouldn't cross the debris field.
 This is desert country out there, they need to go where the water is.
 They also don't want sheep eating anything like pieces of foil.
 It is a concern.
 So that was his concern also, and we haven't mentioned it.
 There was an article in the local paper that rewards were being offered for pieces of one
 of these saucers people were seeing all over the place.
 And when the rancher went to Corona and talked to his buddies there at Corona, that's where
 they did shopping and stuff like that, this is out in the middle of nowhere, they told
 him about the reward.
 You had to go try to collect the reward.
 And we have stories, and I don't know how we can confirm them, that the rancher suddenly
 wound up with some money after all this.
 He certainly was entitled to the reward, and the military said, "No way, Jose."
 Was he also sworn to secrecy?
 Do we know that, the rancher?
 Two years later when his son, Bill Jr., had recovered enough pieces to fill up a cigar
 box, and his wife Shirley even described how he'd come home for dinner after working the
 ranch and he kept this one piece in his leather chaps, and she would describe how he would
 take this piece out, and she'd watch as he'd try to whittle on it and poke through it,
 and then he would crumble it up, crease it, fold it, and every time you'd lay it down
 it would just smooth right out.
 Two years later, there's a knock on his door, and there was a military captain and three
 non-commissioned officers.
 We know what you have, and you will give it to us.
 So he turned over the box, this was two years after the incident.
 They mentioned to him, according to Bill Jr., that just as your father swore that he would
 not say another word about this, and should he ever discover any more material, he would
 contact us immediately.
 We're asking the same of you.
 We should mention one other thing here that I think gives an idea of the scope of the
 concern by the military here.
 We have heard testimony from the daughter of the sheriff, that she was staying with
 her grandmother, it was the granddaughter, grandmother, it was a show on television about
 UFOs, and the grandmother says to the granddaughter, "You know, the reason your grandfather didn't
 rerun for sheriff was when that saucer crashed, the military came to him and said, 'If you
 ever tell about what you saw, we will kill you and we will kill your family.'"
 She was horrified.
 "You didn't believe them," she says to her grandmother.
 "I was there, I believed them," was the answer.
 So sure, it's a little story, but we've heard it.
 The granddaughter was a teacher, they were, how shall I put this, threatening.
 Could the gentleman from Maryland yield just 30 seconds to clear up one question that's,
 and anybody that can answer this, can anybody here give us the name of any person that would
 have been at least the age of 18 or older in 1947 who at the time, in a similar way
 to how Jesse Marcel Sr. said he had received these kinds of materials and they had these
 certain property trades, which he said almost immediately to people.
 Is there anybody other than, or even the child, or who, can you give us the name of anybody
 who said they saw a body, they saw bodies back in 1947 in the name of any person that
 you've got in, you know, you've written, or you've studied this?
 We should mention that.
 We talked about, you know, and I know that Mr. Marcel said that he knew people that had
 seen the bodies, but he never said he had seen a body.
 I just want to make sure that we have a witness if we do or if we don't.
 I just want to know that could give the kind of credibility on the question of bodies,
 which was talked about rather freely a few minutes ago, in the same vein, who has seen
 a body and said so back in 1947, '48, that's my question.
 If you're looking for documentation from 1947, we simply don't have it.
 If you want the name of somebody who was there in 1947 who saw bodies, then we have lots
 of names.
 Even Easley, the provost marshal, mentioned to his family that he had seen the bodies.
 He mentioned that they quizzed him about it when he was very gravely ill with cancer,
 about that, and he said, "Oh, the creatures to them."
 Of course, I asked who had seen the bodies and said so in the same time period.
 Nobody was asking those questions in 1947.
 Yeah, but nobody was asking about debris either until Mr. Marcel said, "I've seen this debris."
 Precisely.
 We have-
 Are you saying that nobody said anything about bodies back in 1947?
 It was only until way later?
 I just want to know.
 I mean, I'm not questioning-
 That's probably an accurate statement.
 I don't know.
 I'm a little confused on the issue is what I'm-
 What you have to understand is after the story broke in the newspapers, the military got
 everybody out of town.
 Marcel is not ... If you're a reporter and you're looking for Major Marcel, you can't
 find him.
 If you want to talk to Mac Brazel, you can't find him.
 If I could just recline my question, just so I make sure I'm clear here, what I'm trying
 to ask.
 Hey, the Army, the Air Force, they could have been covering up from day ... less than
 day one.
 They could from the first second.
 That's not what I'm asking about.
 I'm asking was there any person at the time, and maybe they can't because of a cover-up
 even at the time.
 I'm just saying, is there the name of anybody, living or dead, who in 1947, it was documented,
 they said, and at that time, said, not on their deathbed, not later after they had some
 other situation, but at the time, said they saw a body.
 That's my question.
 I understand the question.
 I understand the question, and the answer is no.
 We have no documentation from that timeframe when they saw the bodies.
 What we have are the people who were there, who later on talked about it.
 Most of these people-
 I understand what you're saying.
 ... didn't come forward with their tails.
 That was the-
 But I wasn't trying to-
 That's the last time you'll yield to the gentleman from Utah.
 Let me-
 Let me make just one closing observation.
 Oh, one quick question.
 Were there any radar tracks from FAA over this?
 No?
 No radar tracks that you know of?
 No.
 Okay, none.
 Okay.
 Curious about that.
 Curious about this, that tell me if I didn't know anything else and never met any of you,
 that the Air Force is not being honest.
 One is, if this was indeed a balloon, there was no darned reason to send it to right field.
 Everybody would have recognized the balloon, so the very fact that they sent the material
 there tells me that they're not telling the truth.
 The second thing that tells me they're not telling the truth is that if in fact it was
 a balloon, why in the heck would it issue a press release saying that a flying saucer
 had crashed there?
 I don't know how you can argue away those two things.
 The debunker would say that's because Colonel Blanchard was a loose cannon, and he probably
 got banned to Siberia for putting out that stupid story.
 I've had somebody tell me that.
 They don't mention he got four more promotions.
 He was a four-star general when he died of a heart attack, and was Vice Chief of Staff
 of the Air Force.
 That's not what you do when you have a loose cannon.
 Those two things alone tell the honest observer that they are not now telling us the truth.
 A balloon is not going to be sent to Wright-Patterson, and a balloon is not going to result in a
 press release that says that a flying saucer has crashed.
 That was the press release.
 It's what they did with what they found there, and what they found there as far as we know
 is either still in Wright-Patterson or has been destroyed, right?
 Or it's been moved to another location.
 Or, yeah, it's still in their possession.
 It can be tracked to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base with documentation.
 Wright Field then, I think.
 Wright Field at the time, yes.
 From that point on, we don't know where it went.
 It could have gone to Area 51.
 We've been told that one of the bodies went to McNeil, which was an aerospace medical
 facility.
 Okay.
 Thank you for being generous with time, sir.
 Well, that's okay.
 I was pushing in to keep that sign up.
 I get three minutes.
 First off, having been a CIC officer, we had a set format report system.
 Was there any documentation within the CIC about the report of going to the crash site?
 What was especially interesting to us was after Major Marcel was sent directly, and
 as Kevin had mentioned, how they took all the key players immediately out of the picture,
 that anybody who had information on this was immediately either sent away or went on leave
 or in the case of Colonel Blanchard, he set up an operation at the crash site.
 They were unavailable to the press, and yet there was still a lot of rumor throughout
 the area.
 In fact, in talking to surviving people throughout the Roswell area, there was a lot of talk
 about the bodies, a lot of rumor about bodies recovered, a lot of talk about the little
 men recovered north of town.
 As far as the counterintelligence officer, when Major Marcel was sent for the balloon
 press conference in Fort Worth with General Ramey, he was kept overnight, and then when
 he returned late afternoon the next day, July 9th, on the very flight that we're convinced
 transported a crate of material which was hidden in bomb pit number one, and it wasn't
 an atomic bomb.
 We have first-hand testimony to that fact, we even have a copy of the manifest.
 It was an unscheduled flight that went out at 4 p.m. on Wednesday, July 9th.
 Well, Marcel, the next morning, the morning of July 10th, he immediately confronted Cavett.
 He wanted to see the report.
 He wanted to know what had transpired in his absence while he had been kept over at Fort
 Worth.
 What did Cavett say?
 And Cavett kept responding, and this was also in the presence of counterintelligence non-commissioned
 officer Louis Rickett, who we also interviewed quite extensively, that Cavett kept telling
 him or kept responding, "What are you talking about?
 What are you talking about?
 Nothing happened."
 And Marcel finally reminded him, "I outrank you," to which Cavett responded, "It's out
 of my hands.
 Take it up with Washington.
 They're now calling the shots."
 Thank you very much.
 I want to ask questions of an 11-year-old boy.
 This is not a hypnotic situation.
 Put your mind back as an 11-year-old.
 You're in the living room.
 Did your dad come back from the site in a pick-up truck, in a sedan, do you recall?
 We had a 1942 Buick convertible.
 Okay, so he didn't have a military vehicle, he took his own vehicle to go to the site.
 That's correct.
 Okay.
 Did your dad come back in his vehicle, was Captain Cavett with him or was your dad alone?
 He was alone.
 He was alone.
 He took some, you weren't there at the vehicle or you were in the living room, he took some
 material out of the vehicle and brought it into the living room.
 Correct?
 Actually, in the kitchen.
 In the kitchen.
 Okay.
 Now, how big was it?
 A little bit big?
 You got a kitchen table now.
 What did you see in the kitchen table?
 An 11-year-old boy.
 Well, this was distributed on the floor of the kitchen, which was about eight by, oh,
 seven by five or eight by 10 area.
 He had pre-positioned the material on the kitchen floor before he got us up.
 So when we got up and walked into the kitchen, the debris was already pre-positioned on the
 floor of the kitchen, which was about maybe 30 square feet worth, you know, just a couple
 of...
 So you weren't there when he brought it in.
 And he set it all up and then called you and your mother to come in and, "Let's take a
 look at this."
 Exactly.
 He pre-positioned it.
 Okay.
 Pre-positioning, he was trying to form somewhat of a design, if you're pre-positioning.
 Well, I think he was trying to put it together, you know, but there's so much of it, you couldn't
 do that.
 There wasn't enough.
 Yes.
 And was a beam like this, which you're circling, is this one of the things you saw there on
 the floor?
 Yeah.
 There are several beams like that.
 And like I said, there was also some black plastic debris, like a broken phonograph record
 at that time, but it wasn't that, it wasn't vinyl.
 But the debris primarily was the beams, the foil, and the black plastic debris.
 I did not, again, see any electronics.
 As your father is talking to you and your mother, did he mention any fact that, "Boy,
 we saw this debris and look at it, but we also saw some bodies"?
 Did he say anything like that?
 No, sir.
 So he made, he did not want to horrify you as a child or your mother that he saw something
 worse than that.
 So do you have any conclusion from the conversation as an 11-year-old that maybe your dad was
 not telling you everything that he saw?
 The bodies were at another location.
 It wasn't all in one place.
 The debris was over here, the crew compartment, call it what you want, was someplace else.
 Very good.
 That's a good addition.
 But I want to stay with the 11-year-old boy.
 Yes.
 The question was, I'm sorry.
 Oh, well.
 Did you have any inkling as an 11-year-old that your father was withholding horrific information
 from you as he's displaying the physical findings?
 He kind of kept things close to his chest.
 So I'm not sure what the internal thoughts were on this, but he was very adamant that
 we were not to talk about it.
 That we were going to what?
 That we were not to talk about this.
 But he kept things close to his chest.
 He had a job on the base, and I really never knew what he did because he was an intelligence,
 he didn't really confide with the family what his job was or what he did, things like that.
 Which would be the normal task of a father who's an intelligence.
 Is there anything else you can share with us of your impressions and knowledge of an
 11-year-old boy?
 Well, it was a very Earth awakening experience or space awakening experience for me.
 It did make this very, did make me very interested in astronomy and cosmology because I realized
 that whatever was on the kitchen floor didn't come from here, but came from out there.
 I got that impression from other comments that you've made that you've intellectualized
 your experience quite extensively.
 Let me close this facet for another hearing.
 We're going to take a segment.
 Carolyn has a question.
 Carolyn, please.
 I heard you were about to close it, and I just wanted to ask.
 I just wanted to ask something you just said.
 The major was an intelligence high-level man.
 Yes, ma'am.
 Kept things close to his chest.
 Yes, ma'am.
 Didn't share a lot with you that he felt was very high intellectually, has to do with
 his work.
 Yes.
 But he prearranged what he had gotten that night and put it away on the floor, woke you
 up and your mom to come take a look at it.
 Now, that in and of itself, this goes my mystery side of me, but then that was significant.
 He wanted you to talk about it.
 He never talked to you about it, but he wanted you to see that and never to mention it again.
 What do you make of that?
 Well, later.
 Sorry?
 There's a time period in between when he saw it on the floor and when it came back from
 Texas.
 Okay, I'm talking about just the floor and just waking you up, seeing you.
 He didn't have to show anything.
 He could have just took it onto the base and did whatever he did.
 I should bring that up.
 He thought it was significant material.
 Right, and he wanted his child to see it and his wife who he never even discussed things
 with.
 At that time, the material was not classified, so he felt okay to do that.
 As a matter of fact, the only time I knew my dad to break security clearances is when
 he came back from overseas, I asked him what did the atomic bomb look like?
 What he did, he drew the outline of the Fat Man bomb that was used on Nagasaki, but then
 he tore it up and threw it away in the trash can.
 I wasn't suggesting that he was breaking any kind of intelligence by showing it.
 He thought it ... He's a major.
 He's a big time.
 He's up there with the generals and almost with the joint chief of staff, you know?
 He wanted to show you what he had found and what had obviously crashed near your home,
 but you couldn't say something about it.
 Then, for whomever they are to take it and make a light of it and it never happened and
 it's a balloon, that doesn't go together.
 No.
 Again, he was very excited about this.
 This is a very special event there.
 He wanted my mother and myself to be first-hand witnesses to this thing, but when he came
 back from Fort Worth after General Ramey, then he said, "No more."
 It didn't happen.
 Period.
 Thank you.
 Okay.
 Thank you.
 We're going to take a 10-minute stretch recess.
 No more than that, 10 minutes, and we'll go into the next testimony.
