 I do hereby affirm that I will tell the truth and nothing but the truth to this committee
 today. Thank you very much. And welcome to our visitors and presenters this morning.
 I'm going to start at the right and have each member take 30 seconds just to introduce yourself.
 We have our counselor on the end who was an excellent expert witness yesterday. Would you
 get about 15 seconds please open up with introductions. We have new people in the room. So yes. Identify
 us. Yes. My name is Dan Sheehan. I'm general counsel for the committee and I've been involved
 in this for about 20 years probably in these kind of hearings since representing Dr. John
 Mack in front of the Harvard Faculty Committee and prior to that time had participated as
 I mentioned in the preparation of a special report from the Congressional Research Service
 to President Carter on this issue back in 1977. Thank you very much sir. Madam Congresswoman.
 Yes I'm Congresswoman Darlene Hooley. Left Congress four years ago. Had a wonderful experience
 while I was there. It was an amazing thing to do. And I am back home in Oregon and have
 a business and delighted that I was invited. I served on the science committee. Delighted
 that I was invited to attend these meetings and I will tell you yesterday was spectacular.
 Really appreciate all the witnesses. And I learned something new. It was fascinating
 to me. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Mike Ravel. Senator from Alaska for two terms.
 Been out of office for 40 years. So but I found the hearings absolutely very interesting
 edifying and I really want to congratulate those who put this conference on. Thank you.
 I'm Roscoe Bartlett. I had the great honor of serving Maryland's sixth district in the
 Congress for 20 years. I didn't come to the Congress until I was 66 years old. So obviously
 I had a life before that. I have a Ph.D. I worked for the military. Various, every way
 you can work for the military for 20 years before I came to the Congress. Taught medical
 school. Really a great honor to serve and really pleased that I was asked to be a part
 of this activity. Thank you. Congresswoman. I'm Lynn Woolsey from just across the Golden
 Gate Bridge from San Francisco. Retired four months now after 20 years in Congress. And
 served the entire 20 years on the science committee and on the education and labor committee
 and find this issue that we're talking about this week absolutely stimulating and important.
 Not just the extraterrestrial piece of it, but mainly the governance and knowing what's
 going on in our government and comparing with other governments. So I too am honored that
 I was asked to be part of this. Thank you. Congressman. I'm Merrill Cook. I had the great
 opportunity to serve the state of Utah as a congressman from the second district which
 is basically the Salt Lake City metropolitan area. I, among other committees, I was pleased
 to serve on the science, the space subcommittee and the aviation subcommittee. Thank you.
 Need no introduction on the end Mr. Bookman. I'm Dr. Joseph Bookman. I held a PhD from
 Indiana University. I ran for Congress in 2008 as a Libertarian. I'm currently the chair
 of the Libertarian Party's platform committee. And I serve as a researcher for the Paradigm
 Research Group. Thank you. And I'm Congresswoman Carolyn Kilpatrick. 14 years in the House
 of Representatives. 12 on the Appropriations Committee. First African American woman to
 serve on the Defense Appropriations Committee which was a thrill. And served on the Air
 Force Academy Board for five or six years in that time. So you have here over 80 years
 of service and public service and giving. And I want to tell you to a person some of
 the best. So the, again, to commend staff for putting this together. I know you guys
 have been in it 30, 40, 50, 60 years and up. We're neophytes and we're here to learn and
 to hopefully take back something so that we can move forward like the rest of the world
 on this topic. Okay, Mr. Pope, thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair, fellow committee members.
 My name is Nick Pope, formerly of the British Ministry of Defense. I had responsibility
 for the UFO issue from 1991 to 1994. And with your permission I'm just going to read a brief
 statement onto the record. The United Kingdom's best known and most compelling UFO incident
 is a series of sightings that occurred in December 1980 and are collectively known as
 either the Rendlesham Forest incident or the Bentwaters incident. The sightings took place
 near the twin military bases of Bentwaters and Woodbridge. These were bases in the United
 Kingdom operated by the United States Air Force. There were several dozen military witnesses,
 the most senior of whom was the deputy base commander, Lieutenant Colonel Charles Holt.
 I'll give a brief summary of events as I see them before focusing on events aspects of
 the case on which I have more direct knowledge. On December 26, 1980, two members of the United
 States Air Force, my colleagues John Burroughs and Jim Penniston here, who had been sent
 to investigate a suspected crashed civilian aircraft, encountered an unknown craft which
 had apparently landed in a small clearing. One of them got close enough to see strange
 hieroglyphic symbols on the side and indeed to touch it. The craft rose slowly above the
 trees and then accelerated away at great speed. A subsequent analysis of the landing site
 showed indentations in the ground, scorch marks on the sides of the trees and radiation
 levels which the Ministry of Defence's Defence Intelligence staff assessed as being significantly
 higher than the average background. The committee will have a small pack of papers including
 that Defence Intelligence staff assessment. The UFO was briefly tracked on military radar.
 Two nights later the UFO returned and fired light beams at the deputy base commander and
 a small team of men who had gone to investigate. It later fired light beams at a particularly
 sensitive area of the military base. Though these events happened many years before I
 joined the Ministry of Defence, it was a case that was raised with me on numerous occasions
 during my time working on MOD's UFO project between 1991 and 1994. It was certainly the
 case on which I received most inquiries from UK parliamentarians, from the media and indeed
 from the public. So as to be able to better respond to these questions I not only read
 all the relevant papers on the case but also launched a retrospective review of the incident,
 something akin to what the police would call a cold case review. Subsequent to this I've
 met in a private capacity most of the witnesses to this incident. Investigations by the United
 Kingdom were inconclusive. I do not know the results of the US investigations because as
 the MOD documents released under the UK's Freedom of Information Act show some evidence
 was removed by the US authorities without informing the British government. Specifically
 the MOD case file reveals and the committee members will have this document too, that
 shortly after the incident General Gabriel visited the twin bases of Bentwaters and Woodbridge,
 was briefed on the incident and took various items relating to the investigation back to
 his headquarters in Ramstein, Germany. At the time General Gabriel held the post of
 Commander in Chief, United States Air Force in Europe. The MOD document concerned though
 carefully worded leaves little doubt that the UK authorities were less than pleased
 with evidence being removed in this way, with the MOD not being informed at the time and
 not so far as I'm aware being briefed subsequently on the conclusions of whatever United States
 Air Force and or Department of Defence investigation followed General Gabriel's visit.
 My cold case review showed that General Gabriel's removal of the evidence was one of a number
 of factors that adversely affected the contemporaneous investigation. A combination of confusion
 over jurisdiction, i.e. between the UK and the US authorities, delay and poor information
 sharing fatally undermine the original investigation. Part of the problem was that the US investigation
 was in of itself a direct contradiction of the US government's public line on UFOs,
 namely that the subject is of no official interest and that no official investigations
 took place after the termination of the USAF's investigative program, Project Bluebird, at
 the end of 1969. This clearly put senior United States Air Force officers in an extremely
 difficult position and it was clear to me that the US authorities wished to hand the
 investigation off to the British while the Ministry of Defence was equally keen to see
 the Americans take the lead. The confusion over precisely what happened at the time is
 compounded by the fact that some Ministry of Defence Defence Intelligence staff UFO files
 covering the time period of the Rendlesham Forest incident have been destroyed, seemingly
 without proper authorisation. While I'm aware that this action has generated some conspiracy
 theories, I'm not aware of any evidence that suggests this was a deliberate attempt to
 hide information, though I know that some people dispute that point. While some internal
 Ministry of Defence emails expressed delight at the loss of these files, my assessment
 is that these were unfortunate remarks by comparatively junior staff and were motivated
 by nothing more sinister than the relief of not having to respond to further Freedom of
 Information Act requests for the documents. By the Ministry of Defence's own admission,
 there was no definitive explanation for the Rendlesham Forest incident and the case remains
 unexplained to this day. However, when pressed to make a statement on the incident, MOD consistently
 said that the events were judged to be of no defence significance, quote unquote, a
 catch-all soundbite that the MOD consistently used with all UFO sightings explained or unexplained.
 In this way, MOD could justify taking no further action, whatever the circumstances of a case.
 It's worth quoting in conclusion the assessment of Lord Hill Norton, retired five-star admiral
 who was former chief of the defence staff and former chairman of NATO's Military Committee.
 Commenting on MOD's no defence significance line on Rendlesham Forest, Lord Hill Norton
 said, "My position, both privately and publicly expressed over the last dozen years or more,
 is that there are only two possibilities, either (a) an intrusion into our airspace
 and a landing by unidentified craft took place at Rendlesham as described, or (b) the deputy
 base commander of an operational nuclear-armed US Air Force base in England and a large number
 of his enlisted men were either hallucinating or lying." It's difficult to disagree with
 that assessment. In the course of my cold case review, I examined
 critically all the various theories that thought to explain the sightings in conventional terms
 as misidentification, hoax or delusions. None of these theories fitted the facts. Most people,
 whatever their views on the UFO mystery, have probably heard of the alleged crash of a UFO
 at Roswell. Arguably, in the Rendlesham Forest incident, we have a UFO incident more recent,
 better documented and better evidence than the Roswell incident. Thank you, Madame Chair.
 Thank you very much. I want to now yield to Patrick. I don't want to mispronounce your
 name and I appreciate you having your testimony to us last night.
 Thank you, Mr. Frescona. Please proceed. Madame Chair, my name is Patrick Frescona.
 I am legal counsel to James Penniston and John Burroughs, both of whom proudly and passionately
 served our country in the United States Air Force. Mr. Burroughs and Mr. Penniston are
 seated with me this morning along with Nick Pope, formerly with the United Kingdom's Ministry
 of Defense. Mr. Pope has been a long-time advocate for full disclosure of the events
 for which we will discuss today. For me, it is indeed nothing short of an honor to be
 seated beside these gentlemen. Thirty-three years ago at the zenith of the Cold War in
 1980, Staff Sergeant James Penniston and Airman First Class John Burroughs were assigned to
 the twin Royal Air Force bases of Bentwaters and Woodbridge near Suffolk, England. At that
 time, RAF Bentwaters and Woodbridge were leased by the United Kingdom to the U.S. Air Force.
 Together, the twin bases were home to the largest tactical fighter wing in existence
 anywhere in the world at that time. James Penniston held U.S. as well as NATO security
 clearances and was responsible for the protection of sophisticated war-making assets in addition
 to the personnel located at the bases. By December of 1980, he was the senior security
 officer in charge of base security at the twin base facility. After midnight on December
 26, 1980, Airman Burroughs along with Staff Sergeant Bud Steffens were on patrol. Together,
 when they noticed strange lights emanating from just outside the east gate of the Bentwaters
 base in the adjacent Rendlesham Forest. Mr. Burroughs had been stationed at the twin base
 facility for nearly two years and had never seen such an unusual phenomenon previously
 in the forest. Sergeant Steffens and Airman Burroughs telephoned Central Security Control,
 Tennessee from the kiosk at the east gate to report the unidentified lights just beyond
 the bases perimeter. Shortly thereafter, Mr. Penniston was briefed by Staff Sergeant Steffens
 regarding the strange lights that they had seen. Mr. Penniston was further informed that
 the lights did not result from a crash but had landed in the forest. This is a remark
 he discounted by Sergeant Steffens and proceeded to notify the base control center that there
 was instead a possible downed aircraft. Mr. Penniston also learned that an object had
 been seen on radar over Rendlesham Forest. Moreover, a call came over his radio that
 eastern radar had also confirmed an object that disappeared from their screens over the
 forest. The team Mr. Penniston assembled to investigate the lights in the forest consisted
 of himself, Airman Burroughs, and Airman Ed Kabancik. As he and the rest of the team approached
 the forest, they experienced uncharacteristic problems with their radios. As a result, Mr.
 Penniston instructed Airman Kabancik to remain at the edge of the forest to act as a relay
 for transmissions between he and Mr. Burroughs as they entered the forest themselves. As
 these two gentlemen proceeded into the forest, they were expecting to find a downed aircraft.
 Upon arriving at the suspected crash site, it immediately became apparent to both Penniston
 and Burroughs that they were not looking at a crashed aerial vehicle or, for that matter,
 any kind of vehicle they had ever seen. Suddenly, a blinding flash of white light emanated from
 that craft, instinctively causing Airman Burroughs, excuse me, Mr. Penniston and Burroughs to
 drop to the ground. As both men returned to their feet, they witnessed a triangular craft
 approximately nine feet long by six and a half feet wide at rest in a small clearing
 in the forest. Also observed were blue and yellow lights swirling around the exterior
 skin of the craft as if they were part of the craft's skin itself. The air in the vicinity
 of the craft felt electrically charged and was in fact so full of static electricity
 they could feel it all over their clothes, skin and throughout their hair. Nothing, absolutely
 nothing in the military training of these men had prepared them for this encounter.
 After perhaps ten minutes had passed without any recognizable aggression displayed by the
 craft, Mr. Penniston concluded there was no threat to either himself or Mr. Burroughs
 and the rest of his response team or, more importantly, to the Bentwaters base itself.
 Consequently, he commenced a thorough on-site inspection of the craft in accordance with
 the usual security protocols. His inspection of the craft included photographs, notebook
 entries and radio contact with Airman Kubancik for relay back to the Bentwaters Control Center.
 Mr. Penniston noted a row of symbols which was two and a half feet long and about three
 inches in height on one side of the craft. The symbols Mr. Penniston saw were pictorial
 and hieroglyphic like in design, the largest one being a triangle which was centered in
 the middle of others. All of the symbols were etched into the skin of the craft which was
 self-warmed to the touch and smooth as glass. Approximately 45 minutes after arriving on
 scene with the craft, it rapidly began to brighten. In response, both Penniston and
 Burroughs took defensive positions away from it and watched as the craft became airborne
 without generating any air or sound disturbance. The craft maneuvered through the trees as
 it ascended skyward then streaked away at an unbelievable rate of speed. In fact, Mr.
 Penniston described the craft's departure speed in his field notes as impossible. The
 craft's departure from the forest was observed not only by Mr. Penniston and Burroughs but
 by more than 40 Air Force personnel, all of whom were trained observers assigned to the
 81st Security Police Squadron. The information acquired during Penniston and Burroughs' investigation
 in the forest was dutifully reported by them through normal military channels. Their team
 and other personnel who witnessed the craft were instructed to treat the investigation
 as top secret and not to discuss what they had seen. The camera film containing photographs
 of the craft Mr. Penniston took were turned into the base lab but when he picked them
 up they were strangely all overexposed rendering them useless. Add to this oddity that following
 the encounter in the forest both Penniston and Burroughs were interrogated by government
 agents believed to be from the Air Force Office of Special Investigations in which narcotics
 were even given them prior to interrogation as if they were some kind of enemy captives.
 The previous description of the encounter Jim Penniston and John Burroughs had in Rendlesham
 Forest in late December of 1980 was not solitary. John Burroughs would join Colonel Charles
 Halt on another investigation in the forest two nights subsequent when an illuminated
 craft moved silently through the forest before becoming multiple aerial objects overhead.
 Colonel Halt generated an official Air Force memorandum commonly referred to as the Halt
 Memo in which he memorializes this event. Moreover the Colonel has even stood in this
 very room we are in today and said he believed the objects were under intelligent control.
 Jim Penniston and John Burroughs both began suffering from physical ailments after their
 encounter in the forest. Ailments which did not exist prior to joining the Air Force but
 ailments which began almost immediately after exposure to the craft in the forest. These
 ailments have persisted in both men to this day. In 2011 I began assisting both gentlemen
 in propounding Freedom of Information Act requests on the Central Intelligence Agency,
 National Security Agency, Defense Intelligence Agency, Department of the Air Force, Defense
 Advanced Research Projects Agency via the Department of Defense, Air Force Office of
 Special Investigations, and the Department of Veterans Affairs. All of the previously
 listed divisions of our government responded to our inquiries for information regarding
 John and Jim by essentially saying they had nothing on file about them. The one exception
 is the CIA's response which was the most frustrating of them all by their stating that
 they could neither confirm nor deny the existence or non-existence of records responsive to
 our request. In other words none of the governmental entities we contacted, those we just named,
 even the Air Force seemed to know anything about a John Burroughs or a Jim Penniston
 despite the fact that we're all fairly certain they served in the United States Air Force
 for many years. We have repeatedly sought to obtain the medical records of John's and
 Jim's default requests but have yet to succeed. John's physicians in particular have requested
 his service medical records especially those related to what it was he and Jim came into
 contact with in the forest. They have requested this information time and time again from
 John in order to provide the best chance to treat his medical problems which have at times
 been life-threatening. We even enlisted the help of a former senator from John's home
 state of Arizona but still did not get anything other than learning that the Veterans Administration
 has a classified records section. In closing I want to say that in December of 1980 I was
 thousands of miles away from Rendlesham Forest studying in college. I was completely unaware
 of the incident. I was completely unaware of these gentlemen. It would not be but for
 another 28 years in 2008 that I would first encounter that incident and become aware of
 it. But once I learned of their story I felt compelled to assist them however I could as
 this was an event of tremendous fascination, importance and one with casualties too. It
 has been cowardly the way their requests for medical records and the like have been rejected
 using excuses like we have no records responsive to your request or the requested records are
 no longer under our purview. Nevertheless we continue undaunted in our search for these
 gentleman's medical records so that their physicians may properly treat them as John
 Burroughs once said to me Jim and I have been left behind on the battlefield of the Cold
 War. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you very much for the both of your testimonies. It's
 very hard to explain why a country this great can treat our military so poorly. I want to
 yield now to Mr. Pennington. Sergeant are you prepared? Thank you madam. I appreciate
 that all of you are here today and I look forward to your questions and I'll try to
 answer them as honestly as I can. It's been 32 years though. There's a few gray areas
 that I can't recall on so I'll try to answer them as best as I can and keep it strictly
 to the facts. Thank you. Thank you sir and thank you for your service. Sergeant Burroughs.
 Thank you madam. My name is Tech Sergeant John Burroughs, United States retired. In
 December 1980 I was assigned to the 81st Tactical Fighter Wing at Aria Bentwaters which at the
 time was the largest tech fighter wing in the United States Air Force. During the opening
 day of testimony you were exposed to the history of UFOs and the cover up that's taking place.
 Today you will be hearing from military personnel who are involved in some of these incidents.
 One of the factors that I feel is being overlooked is the human toll that takes place with the
 witnesses that are involved in these incidents. Our job was to investigate and report back
 in what we observed. What we were not prepared for is what happened to us afterwards. In
 our case we were not only let down by our chain of command but there's also evidence
 showing that we were brought in and interrogated by OSI and other agencies. What you're about
 to hear is what happened to us in the forest, the investigation took place afterwards and
 the evidence showing our incident is still classified 32 years later. Thank you. Were
 there other witnesses of this craft other than the two of you? Yes, on the first night
 there was a security flight that was working and then also a law enforcement flight that
 was working and that totaled somewhere between 40 and 60 people at varied. It was over the
 Christmas holidays plus we had a number of civilian witnesses that came forward later
 on. Were there any but you two who were close to the craft and saw it on the ground or do
 the others simply see it leaving and coming? On Bentwaters, the bases are two bases that
 are geographically separated by three miles of Wurundjerum Forest. The main operating
 base is on Bentwaters. That's where all the control centers are. Now the security forces
 working that night that were on Bentwaters, I think it was about 13 of them seen at land.
 Then everybody else that was working our restrict areas on Woodbridge at Charlie and Delta area,
 they seen the object in the woods but it was mostly a dome of light that was over the woods
 and as far as getting direct contact with the vehicle itself was John and I and Kibansack.
 But everybody that was working on Woodbridge base that night and Bentwaters base that night
 seen it take off. That was observed by everybody. When it landed, I gather that it was not detailed
 enough so there was some concern that it might be a crash of one of our aircraft? Well, when
 I approached the craft itself, we were familiar with all types of aircraft and silhouettes.
 We practiced routinely. We could tell by looking at the silhouettes what kind of aircraft they
 were Warsaw Pack or if they were Chinese or ours. But the craft itself was void of things
 that aircraft need to fly. I mean, it did not have a crew compartment that I could see,
 did not have exhaust, did not have intake. I did not know what the front was. So it was
 pretty void of all those things. And aerodynamically, well, it was a brick. I mean, there's no way
 that thing could fly. And my mindset at the time was that was not going anywhere. It was
 just going to stay there. So I had all the time in the world.
 >> Can I take a second to add to that? The reason why we were sent out there by our shift
 commander and after discussion on the phone was the fact that Eastern radar was contacted
 and notified us that there was some kind of object over the base that disappeared in the
 forest. Because it was off base, our jurisdiction was limited. But because the possibility existed
 that something actually crashed in the forest, the decision was made by the shift commander
 to allow us to go out into the forest to investigate. At the same time, the local authorities were
 contacted also. >> Was there a radar track before it landed?
 It was picked up on radar before it landed? >> Yes, what we were informed was Eastern radar,
 our local radar, both picked up something on radar over the forest area outside of Woodbridge
 Airport space. >> Okay. What were the approximate dimensions
 of the vehicle? >> Well, I had to pace them off. I took a
 large stride, so I measured it as nine feet by nine feet by nine feet. I'm six foot two,
 so I measured it estimated at six and a half, seven feet tall. We did have berms, earthen
 berms that was in the forest, and so the area was uneven somewhat. It was actually a very
 small craft, and that was one of the puzzling parts of it, is it was just too small for
 it to be piloted, in my opinion. >> Was there any investigation of the landing
 site? Was it cordoned off, and did experts come to see what artifacts might have been
 left there? >> Yes, well, the security forces did, besides
 obviously us two, did an investigation the following morning, which included several
 security personnel, and then also about a week later, a little less, Colonel Halt informed
 us that a team from Langley came in, and they cordoned the whole area off on the east end
 of adjacent to the east gate where the area was, and they provided their own entry control,
 and they wouldn't allow us in the area. They were there a few days, and then left, packed
 up and left. >> The documentation relative to this, is
 it now existing, or has it been lost, destroyed? >> May I take that, please?
 >> Yes, sir. >> Yes, the British government's file on this
 incident has been declassified and released under the UK Freedom of Information Act, and
 you should all have in front of you Colonel Halt's initial memo to the Ministry of Defence,
 which certainly mentions the radiation readings that were taken at the landing site by a number
 of people, including the disaster preparedness officer, Monroe Nevels, who did the assessment.
 You should also have in your pack a British government document, again released under
 the Freedom of Information Act in the UK, which is the defence intelligence staff assessment
 of those radiation levels that were reported to us, and you'll see that that document suggests
 that the readings were about seven times higher. >> One more, please. Thank you. Continue.
 >> Those who debunk the whole UFO thing, what do they do with this incident? How do they
 explain it away? I mean, it was real, you saw it, it was tracked on radar. How do they
 explain it away? >> We believe the cover-up started within 24
 hours after the incident. There was an individual sat downtown and made contact with some of
 the local, what they call reporters and investigators that were involved in UFOs, and it was spread
 around that there was some kind of alien contact in the forest. Also what went on after that
 was there was a debunker that came forward and tried to explain it away as either Colonel
 Halt, who was a combat controller prior to becoming command officer, that he was either
 fooled by stars, planets, or the local lighthouse. >> Well, how did they explain the radar track?
 >> It's just like all the other documents that we present. They just try to downplay
 what we have. >> They're not talkable.
 >> They're not talkable. >> Yeah, I've had a very long-time curiosity
 and interest in this, and my major concern has been what do you do with those sightings
 that were accompanied by a radar track? You know, you can have searchlights off of clouds
 and they can appear to move very, very rapidly and the eyes can be fooled. But, you know,
 when you have both a visual sighting, several people seeing it, and picked up on radar,
 you can't just wish that went away. And I'm just curious how they deal with those number
 of incidents that have both visual sightings and a radar track, and in this case, you know,
 a landing. And am I to understand that there are few existing records that the records
 of this incident, like those of Roswell, are gone? >> Some of the paperwork has survived,
 but to answer the specific question about how governments deal with UFOs that are simultaneously
 tracked on radar, in my experience at the Ministry of Defense, the issue is decoupled.
 In other words, the Ministry of Defense will then say, when responding to questions, radar
 is not an exact science and anomalous returns can arise through faults or through meteorological
 effects. So governments will typically downplay the radar in that way, and then, as I say,
 decouple it from the eyewitness testimony, as if they were two separate issues.
 >> That is true. You can have spurious results. But when that is accompanied by visual sightings,
 doesn't it give that some credibility to the radar track?
 >> It does, yes, sir. But that's simply how the Ministry of Defense would downplay that
 issue. >> Officially in Britain, is this handled
 the same way it is in our country, just denial that it exists?
 >> The Ministry of Defense UFO project was based very much on the United States Air Force
 program Project Blue Book, right from the terms of reference through to the investigative
 methodology. And, yes, very much the conclusion was we accept that people do see strange things
 that can't always be explained, but we do not believe these things to be of any defense
 interest or significance. That was the party line.
 >> You know, a few of these, one here and one there, and it's easy to accept that that
 might be just hallucination or something, but when there are so many, so many different
 places over so many years, doesn't it become pretty much obligatory that something's, that
 we recognize that something's there? >> I agree. And, indeed, that's one of the
 reasons why I continue to speak out on this issue. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Defense's
 UFO project was the victim of defense cuts in 2009 and has now gone the same way as the
 USAAF program Project Blue Book. >> I think that this attempt to cover up, clearly
 there is that attempt to cover up, reflects an attitude on leadership about the general
 public that I have a lot of trouble with, that somehow the general public is not able
 to cope with something like this, that they have to be protected, that they would panic,
 that they're too dumb to understand or something like that. I just don't think that this is
 the way that our general public ought to be viewed. If it's out there, if it's real, we
 have a right to know. And the government, which covers it up, they can cover that up
 and make assumptions about what I ought to know, what I ought not to know. That gives
 me a lot of concern. Thank you very much for your testimony.
 >> Thank you. I note that Sergeant Burroughs, you had something you wanted to add there?
 >> No, ma'am. >> You're fine. Thank you, Congressman. Congresswoman
 Hooley, please. >> All right. Thank you very much. Thank you
 all for being on this panel. And Sergeant Penniston and Sergeant Burroughs, thank you
 for hanging in here. This has been a lot of years you've carried this around with you.
 What are you doing now? Not in this minute, in life.
 >> Okay. I got that. No, we're in the process of making this a historical document. We're
 writing a book, the three of us together to put this out. And I recently, you know, was
 a human resource director for a county government for 20 years. Actually, I've been on the service
 and retired now for 20 years this year, so. >> And in your record -- well, Sergeant Burroughs,
 what are you doing now? >> Yes, ma'am. I retired from the Air Force
 in 2006. And I took a couple civilian jobs and also was a basketball coach. But because
 of my current medical conditions, I'm basically limited in what I can do and I'm trying to
 work on getting disability. >> So your current medical situations, both
 of you. So are you getting treated by the Veterans Administration for this -- your illnesses?
 >> Barely. Okay. They have addressed a few issues, like with the interior problems of
 disbalance issues. See, one of the problems was is initially -- we were supposed to treat
 it as top secret, which we did. I followed orders. Then when I did that, I had to go
 to the base of the hospital because I was having problems walking. I mean, it was like
 within three weeks after the incident. So here I am with a dilemma. Do I violate orders
 and tell them -- because they asked me and they said, have you been exposed to radiation
 recently? So I followed orders and said no. I mean, it was obvious that that was radioactive
 out there because it was so warm to touch. >> So you did touch it. That was going to
 be -- >> Yeah, that's probably the worst decision
 I made, I think, touching that. Yeah. I didn't -- after the initial contact with it and the
 explosion of light, I didn't touch it again, though. I just walked around it and tried
 to write down as many notes as I could. Getting back to the medical issues, I got out in 1993,
 and early 1994, I went to -- I was just having a terrible time sleeping. I mean, I was getting
 maybe two to three hours a night of sleep, and so I decided to -- I went to my doctor
 and she said, well, maybe I'll send you to a psychiatrist. It could be some PTSD. I didn't
 call it that then, but -- and I said, okay, we'll try that.
 >> And this is a VA doctor? >> No, I had to pay for that myself. They
 went -- the VA said I didn't have a medal for combat in England, so I know that makes
 no sense. I said I had an incident -- I told them all about that. I had an incident. I
 said I can't -- it was classified and I can't tell you what it is, but it's fair -- viable
 with the government, not necessarily the Air Force. But anyway, they wouldn't -- I went
 to my own doctor, my own MD, and she referred to me to a -- I told her I wanted a reasonable
 price -- a psychiatrist. I mean, that's impossible. I want you to know that. There's no reasonable
 pricing on that. So I go there, and, you know, after a couple
 of visits, she says, you know what I'd like to do? Because I think she was thinking like,
 oh, maybe you're abused when you're a child or something like that. I don't know. Who
 knows? And she said, I'd like to do some hypnosis with you and, you know, transgressional hypnosis
 and we'll try that. She says I'm going to tape it because that's what I use for notes.
 And I said, okay. And so -- and she says you won't remember nothing. I'll make sure that
 you don't remember anything from it. And she said we'll get you to sleep in the morning.
 I said great. And then I come out of the hypnosis. It was like two hours. And she's like -- she
 looked like I don't -- her mouth is down at the bottom of the table. And she says, tell
 me about RF Woodbridge. And I said, wow. And I said, I think it's classified. I don't know.
 And she says, well, she said, you know, and I remembered when I got out, that was a specific
 question I asked about it being classified. And they come back with some weird answer.
 The Pentagon, the information office said that nothing classified happened at Bentwater,
 so therefore nothing is classified for you to worry about, which is so ridiculous of
 an answer from the Pentagon. I mean, what they should have said is the incident is classified.
 And then that means I can't talk about it.
 >> But that doesn't -- that wouldn't mean you couldn't be treated because you can talk
 in generalities.
 >> Right.
 >> Yes, I have been exposed to radiation. So I did have another question.
 >> Did you want me to answer?
 >> Yeah, I want you -- yes, please, Mr. Burrows.
 >> So for me, shortly after the incident happened, I started not feeling well. At one point,
 my gums turned white. A couple, three months later, while home on leave, I became very
 ill and went into the emergency room. Okay. The doctor there listened to my chest and
 came back and says, well, what does the Air Force say about heart murmurs? And I looked
 at him and I says, I don't have a heart murmur. I just shortly joined the Air Force and my
 physical said I had a clean bill of health. And one of the other interesting things to
 know about a heart murmur is you're not allowed to enter the United States Air Force if you
 have a heart murmur.
 >> Of course not.
 >> It's against regulations. So at that point, I wasn't sure how or why I got it. And the
 other question was, later on when I had vision problems was from the doctor down at Wilford
 Hall was have you ever been exposed to radiation? Again, I did not relate back at that point
 to the time in the fields at Reynolds Forest. Three years ago, I got really sick one day.
 I went into the urgent care thinking I had bronchitis. They put me on an EKG machine
 and they rushed me to the hospital. I was an AFib, congestive heart failure. At that
 point, they did a bunch of tests in the hospital. They shocked my heart back into regular rhythm,
 but none of the tests were conclusive on why I would have AFib or congestive heart failure.
 I was released, followed up with my civilian doctor, and eventually the insurance company
 blocked any more tests because there was nothing showing why I could have any of those incidents.
 I was a nonsmoker as far as cigarettes. I didn't drink alcohol. Everything was clearing
 my arteries and everything else and my doctor was perplexed. My heart did rebound and I
 went back to normal life. Eight months later, I walked into the emergency room and my heart
 rate, my heart fracture rate was down to ten percent. I was the walking dead. They transferred
 me immediately down to a heart hospital in Phoenix, Arizona.
 So you're not, but you're not being treated by the VA?
 No, I'll get to that in a minute. I'll get to that, how it's all about. Because of
 all this, Mr. Frisco and I started inquiring with the government, the VA and everybody
 else about, because my doctor's requesting my medical records from the military, about
 my records. Senator Kyle, who I sent a letter to in December or January of 2010, took my
 case. He started looking into it, okay? During the process of his investigation, we received
 a letter, which we have here today, and a phone call from his, from one of his senior
 staffers saying it appears to be that my records are located in a classified VA section, which
 the staffer told me, which is not well known to anybody, to include members of Congress.
 She said we came across this when we were doing an investigation on PTSD and Agent Orange
 and we kept running into things that we couldn't get past, and we discovered this classified
 section, okay? My initial request for my VA records were denied. The VA said that because
 I had not filed for disability, they would not even release my medical records, which
 belonged to me. They would not release my records to my doctor so I could receive treatment,
 because I had not filed for disability and allowed the VA to review it. Senator Kyle
 had me go in, file a disability claim, and bring him that claim. This was in June of
 2010. In November of 2010, after not hearing from him, we sent him a letter. His response
 back to us was I was unable to obtain your records. My suggestion is, because I'm retiring,
 is to try to contact Senator McCain and see what he can do for you. Now, I've gone almost
 a year without getting any reaction or any kind of care from the Veterans Administration
 because my records are classified. Finally, after a few months, Senator McCain was able
 to move up my claim and I was seen by the VA in Prescott, Arizona. When I met with the
 doctor who was reviewing my case, we started discussing my case. She looks at me and she
 says, because I keep referring back to 79, 80, and 81. She looks at me directly in the
 face and says, sir, I have no DD form 214 for you from 1979 to 82. It does not show
 you being in the United States Air Force. And supplicantly, I have no records, no medical
 records of you during that time frame. I looked at her and I said, oh, what a surprise. That
 means they're classified. She looked back at me in shock and said, there's some things
 we don't have a need to know. There's people above us that handle this.
 Thank you. What I was going to say that, and I would like to ask Mr. Polk a question, but
 what I was going to say was, have you gone through your congressional offices? Because
 I know in my district, we would have turned that into a major case and demanded, you can't
 tell them what the outcome has to be, but you can demand information all the way down
 to why, you know. What was interesting about both. And asking
 for a waiver. What was very interesting about Senator Kyle
 and Senator McCain is they would not comment on anything other than they would attempt
 to get the VA to treat us. That was it. Right. But McCain got you that far.
 Well, I'm currently now, I was, yes, interviewed by the VA.
 Okay. And Mr. Penness. I'm not having too good of a success with
 Senator Kirk. Well, push. I mean, you really have to because
 -- Excuse me. I yield to Kyle some additional two minutes.
 Oh, thank you. Because they are your advocates to, I mean, it's our responsibility to be
 the interference between, and the conduit between our constituents and federal agencies.
 And the idea that you were in the Air Force and they say you weren't, I mean, this is
 not okay. And these, your members of Congress and senators
 have to go front for you on this. We're doing this alone.
 I know. But --
 We're not getting the help that we need with it. I mean, when Pat, our attorney, I mean,
 we're retired Air Force. There's no doubt about that, I mean.
 But he tried to get my records. And the only records they're going to provide
 him is from the time I got out. Yeah, I know. But what I'm hearing is that
 those boroughs and probably yourself, Jim, that they are denying you were even in the
 Air Force the first -- when you were in -- I mean, that is -- come on, that's criminal.
 This is the United States of America. So something has to be fixed with that.
 I have to ask Nick Pope a question, okay? I want to know why, when the incident happened
 in Great Britain and it wasn't even on the American base, why did the Americans become
 the lead in the investigation? This was in Great Britain.
 My assessment of that is that because the incident was regarded as a security incident,
 the Americans did have the jurisdiction to go off base.
 It's -- the umbrella piece of legislation, as I understand it, is the NATO status of
 forces agreement. And jurisdiction can actually be concurrent
 in a security situation. The U.S. do have the authority to go outside
 the wire. But the U.K. have jurisdiction, too.
 But the U.S. took primacy because it was a security event.
 Okay. Thank you. Let me just make a statement here. I've been
 advised by our congressional research service gentleman on the end there that because you
 were so obedient and had such short opening statements, we do have a little leeway time
 here. So I'm going to yield the congresswoman two
 more minutes for the attorney here. Thank you. Mr. Fresco, go on.
 I just wanted to add that I'm not helping these gentlemen for my career sake, okay?
 I'm doing it because they're worthy of an effort being put forth on their behalf.
 And as I had said in the opening statement, their case is so compelling.
 There's just no way I could leave it without trying to do something for it.
 I wanted to say, though, I worked for a member of the California delegation in the 1980s,
 a legislative assistant there, too. And one of my issue areas was Bureau of Land
 Management. The oddest thing we came across in that office
 at the time were nude sunbathers in the deserts of California that I would have to deal with.
 Shame, shame. Well, it goes to the next point I want to
 make, which all I would do is call the liaison with BLM and have them send a call out there
 and move them on. But it's interesting to watch the reaction
 whenever I approach, particularly in this case with John, Senator Kyle's office.
 Everybody gets to a point, for lack of a better word, weird at some point when you bring up
 the rendition case. Everybody gets weird at some point.
 And although I understand the senator was retiring, he had had almost a year, or rather
 his -- some L.A. in his office did. If that had been me, Congressman Thomas
 would have fired me if after a year I had not resolved a constituents problem.
 So nothing against Senator Kyle or his staff. But it goes to show how there is a wall at
 some point you reach in this case. And thus, we're at the point that we are.
 And searching for answers. Well, I'm hoping that others of my colleagues
 up here are going to continue this conversation, because they've told me I've outwarned my
 welcome for a moment. Very good, very good line of questioning.
 Thank you, Congresswoman. Senator Gravel.
 I'll continue to pursue that line of questioning. I get my health services from the V.A., so
 I have some hands-on experience with them. Is this the first time you've brought your
 case in a public hearing? Or has it all been on direct contact through your attorney or
 through your own efforts with the V.A.? Is this the first time this is being made public?
 Yes, sir. What we were trying to do is work within the system, which has failed us so
 far, and trying to get some kind of, you know, care and results on what's going on. And like
 Mr. Friscona said, every time we reach a certain point, we get stonewalled. So at this point
 we felt it was time to make it public. Let me just give you a little bit of advice.
 You know, God helps those who help themselves. And so you've got to be a lot more aggressive.
 When the political system that you interface with, not even got to the V.A. yet, was not
 responsive with any immediacy, and this is what Carol, the congresswoman, was referring
 to, is that, you know, it's a given on our side, in our activities, that when you have
 a case that just cries out for attention, you just put the muscle on it and you make
 sure that there's an intelligent response. And so I'm somewhat horrified to just hear
 your story, because, you know, we're dealing with bureaucracies, and bureaucracies are
 human beings, and some human beings are responsive, and some are not. And you clearly have run
 into a series of bad luck of those who aren't responsive. The classification problem that
 stymies me, that they would classify your records or not acknowledge that you had served,
 you have a discharge document, right? Okay. So that proves that you were somewhere for
 some period of time. And so I just really want to say that get back on this. You'll
 obviously, there'll be some attention as a product of this hearing, but I think that
 you want to get back to your congressional persons and really be aggressive. This is
 just unfair. This is just gross incompetence and negligence on the part of the government.
 And you're the victims of this. And my wife and I, whenever I go to a doctor or I bring
 my wife along, you need an advocacy. You need somebody to stick on top of the issues, not
 just because you're somewhat in a bad situation when you're in front of a doctor, you're just
 giving them the information. Sometimes they're competent, sometimes they don't care. I had
 a doctor in the VA and she told me I really wasn't ill. I was wasting her time. There's
 more important people to see that are ill. Well, I made a complaint right to the top
 at that VA hospital and I want a new doctor, period. And the new doctor I got was a sympathetic,
 caring person and helped me a great deal. So you've got to take that responsibility
 on yourselves. And that's the best advice I can give you is be aggressive. Don't put
 up with this crap from a bureaucracy that's unresponsive and whether it's a congressional
 area that's unresponsive or the VA that's unresponsive, you know, here again, squeaky
 wheel gets the grease. And so you've just got to do that. And you've got to take somebody
 with you to act as an advocate during an examination because you can't remember everything that
 they're saying to you. Let me ask, can you share with us a little bit more, first Jim
 and yourself, the physical problem that you're experiencing? Well, like I said earlier, it
 started out with the inner ear problem. Eventually... Which affects your balance. Right. But you
 know, if you do, if you're in that, have that condition long enough, you end up compensating
 quite a bit, you can do those things. They eventually did say it was Meniere's disease
 on separation, when they did do that. And I can get treated for that, which I do get
 medicine for that. But approximately two years after the incident, I mean, I got violently
 sick and I got put in the hospital and apparently I had my heart infection and it was heart
 related and I've never had anything like that before. And I almost died. It was a touch
 and go situation. And anyway, I pulled through it and I like to have those records. Why would
 that happen? And everything they come up with, they always ask... Are these records VA now
 or private records? Well, these are US Air Force. Okay. When I was in... During, when
 you were in service? Sure. Or active duty. Yes. In your VA records right now, is it on
 a computer? In other words, are you in the system at this point? Yes, I'm in the system
 for the Meniere's part. The other stuff, they won't treat it. But everything should be in
 the computer. In other words, it's a history and the Congress has appropriated a lot of
 money to get this down. If the gentleman will yield to me one minute. I sure will. It's
 my understanding that they started from a certain point and went forward. They have
 these guys' records in a box somewhere or in a file cabinet or something. And they intend
 to bring it all up to date. But I would guess that they're not for back then when they don't
 even acknowledge they were in the Air Force, that it's in the computer. How old are you?
 I'm 58. Okay. So, I'm old enough that I bounce one from the other. If I'm not happy, I'll
 go to Medicare or VA, preferably VA. And your age? 52, sir. Okay. You both got a little
 bit of time to wait. But in your case, there's no record at all of you in the VA system?
 Okay. Two things happened with Senator Kyle. Number one, when he initially requested my
 records, they didn't exist. They weren't where they were supposed to be. And after a second
 letter was sent, and it was interesting the way the St. Louis treated him, they told him
 they'd try to look into it for him. They said, "We'll try to locate his records, but they're
 not where they belong." Eventually, they were able to get part of my personnel records released.
 Okay? And then from the personnel records, my DD form 214 is missing from 79 to 82. When
 I went in and saw the doctor, she was the one that brought up to me that there was no
 medical records in her file that she had received for me from 79 to 82. And she looked at me
 funny and said, "There's no record of you being in the Air Force from 79 to 82." And
 I pulled out a piece of paper that I brought with me showing where I came in the Air Force
 enlisted in 1979. And I also showed her the physical showing that I came in with no heart
 problems, and my exit physical with heart problems. And that changed her attitude towards
 me at that point. And again, like I said, she looked at me and said, "There's some things
 that we don't have need to know." And I said to her, I says, "Well, how are you going to
 do a fair evaluation on my case? Because you're the one that's going to recommend whether
 I receive disability and what kind of treatment I get. Am I correct?" And she said, "Yes,
 sir." And she says, "Well, sir, what I can tell you is there might be somebody above
 me that'll have to look into this incident at this point."
 Well, yeah, that's sort of pattern. I hate to admit this as a former senator, but my
 experience generally has been that you get better casework from the House member than
 you do from the senator. And I hate to admit that, but that's a fact.
 Can I bring up a point?
 Sir, can I bring up a point though? The reason why we contacted Senator Kyle was his vast
 experience in helping veterans. He had a vast staff in Phoenix, then we did our research
 that their job, and they were very successful at helping veterans solve their cases.
 Were they successful helping you?
 No, sir, they weren't. And she was very frustrated.
 That's my case right there.
 Right. She was very frustrated with me. When I met face to face with her, she told me,
 "You're probably never going to know what happened to you, but hopefully we can at least
 get you some care." That's what the aide told me.
 They've got to learn what happened to you, because you can't go to a doctor and have
 a mystery or have a void, because they can't practice medicine that way. I'm fascinated
 by one thing. I'd like to move away from the VA. And again, let me, it's your responsibility
 to be aggressive and not take no for an answer. You've served, you paid your dues, and you're
 entitled to be taken care of by the country that you've served. So if you're not getting
 satisfaction here, go there, but be aggressive. The thing that I'm fascinated by, now, you
 did not touch the craft. He touched the craft, right?
 No, sir, I did not touch the craft.
 Okay. Now, I want you to walk us through. You're walking up to it, and you touch it.
 What do you do? Touch it, that? Do you grab it? Tell us about that.
 Okay. Well, after the explosion of light, and we did hit the ground, I mean, I thought
 it was going to explode.
 That's good training.
 Yeah.
 I mean, it was reaction. So there was no noise. So I got up and compiled myself, just composed
 myself just a little bit, and I said, "Well, I got to do what I'm supposed to do. I need
 to investigate and get as much information as I can and report it back to some of the
 higher pay grade, you know, who can make a decision on this." I felt since there was
 no reaction from it at the beginning, it was non-hostile. I mean, it didn't look like it
 was going to go anywhere. It looked like it was fixed. It was going to stay there. So
 I started doing the walk around 360 of the object, and as I came around, I seen there
 was an inscription on the front, and I was actually relieved. I thought it was going
 to say United States Air Force, Nassau, some product. I was looking for that. And when
 I seen the glyphs, I, you know, your imagination does, when I went into that forest, I never
 believed in UFOs, ET alien, and I still don't, by the way.
 This is what you saw, right?
 That's what I saw. So, you know, I'm having a hard time rationalizing this because I really
 wanted it to be an aircraft crash, too. I mean, there's all kinds of things I wanted
 it to be because it didn't look like an aircraft crash. I was just trying to make it an aircraft
 crash because we lost contact, you know, prior to 15 minutes. I said, "It gave us permission
 to go off." So I started walking around the craft, and I seen the glyphs, and as I, you
 know, ran my hand from the fabric of the craft, it was smooth to touch.
 You ran your hands along it?
 Yeah, I started feeling it, and I said, "Well, the first thing I looked at was underneath
 it," because I said, "How's this being fixed?"
 Excuse me for a moment for the record. I yield to you in an additional couple of minutes.
 Thank you. I'll take whatever I can get.
 You know, I was wondering how...
 Just to conclude it.
 I was wondering how, sir, it was being, how it was sitting there in the forest. So there
 was light emulating underneath it. So as I looked down, there was no landing here, but
 it was up, off the ground, maybe two feet. So here I am, pushing the craft. It doesn't
 move. Nothing. As solid as can be. So I said, "Okay." So I start running my hand across it.
 Was it humming when you tried to...
 There was complete silence. There was, the air temperature at that time was about 32
 degrees. When I touched the craft, it felt like metal, smooth metal, and I would say,
 and this is an estimate, guess...
 Did you have gloves on, or was it your own skin?
 No, it was my own skin. Anyway, I figured the temperature of it might have been 45,
 50 degrees. Unbeknownst to me, it probably was radioactive, and that's probably why it
 was warm. I didn't realize that at the time. Then as I walked around it, I knew it was
 nothing that we had, and it surely wasn't nothing the Russians had. No, it was beyond
 our technology.
 Thank you very much. All I wanted to do is leave one, two words with you. Question authority.
 Just don't take...
 Thank you.
 Question authority.
 In the sergeant's defense, in the military, you just do what you're told, and you do your
 job. All you all know that. You're a senator, so that makes a difference. You get a little
 bit more out of that, but no, your point...
 We don't know until...
 I know. I know. We do have to do that, particularly in today's world, for sure.
 I walk in, and I get good care as a human being. They don't know that.
 No, I don't believe that. Yeah, okay. Excuse me. Congresswoman Hooley.
 Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you for taking your time to testify. I found it fascinating.
 When this aircraft landed, how long did it take for the public to find out that this
 object, this aircraft, this thing had landed?
 Some local people were aware of this incident almost immediately, and indeed, there are
 a number of civilian witnesses who have gone on the record with that. The document that
 you'll have from the deputy base commander, Lieutenant Colonel Charles Holt, was made
 public in 1983, but for many years, this was the only piece of paper that had been released
 in that way. But it was 1983 that it went public.
 And why was there... So it went public, but before that, was there any... Did they try
 to cover up that this thing had landed? Yes. My understanding is that a number of
 local reporters, and indeed, a number of local investigators of strange phenomena, were aware
 that something had happened, questioned aggressively the great base press office, were told that
 nothing had occurred. And it was only when this document was released under the Freedom
 of Information Act that the authorities were forced to say, "Oh, yes, we did have an incident."
 But even then, it was downplayed. Okay. Were there other members of the military
 that were out there walking around the craft like you were?
 No, ma'am. I was the only one that walked around a craft. John was incapacitated at
 the time, so by whatever visual lighting that was causing him to be enveloped in it, he
 just recently came public with that. And I've known about that for years, but this is a
 human journey we're going through also, to be able to deal with certain emotional issues
 with it. And so John just went public with that. But that's one of the things I kept
 secret until he was ready, what was happening to him. And the poor guy, one night wasn't
 enough, he did it on two nights. Same thing happened to him. So it's very disturbing,
 actually, for me to even think that would happen to somebody. You know, I was helpless.
 I did what I had to do. I figured I was going to die out there that night. So I figured
 I was going to get as much information, do my job. And well, we're here. So I was wrong.
 Were you the only two out there? No. Okay. On the first night. This actual incident took
 place over three nights. Okay. Three nights. Okay. And if you look at the halt memo, you'll
 see that the date is wrong on the first night when it started. That was one of the things
 that we've questioned and we were able to prove eventually that the initial date that
 he put down was not wrong, was not correct. But the first night was our incident. The
 second night, there was a small incident where they observed lights again in the forest moving
 around and they sent two personnel out to investigate. One of them is the on-duty shift
 commander. At one point, a beam of light shot down at their vehicle, threw it, and shut
 the vehicle off. At that point, she was so upset she was relieved of duty and sent home
 for the rest of the night. On the third night, which is the Colonel Halt incident, which
 he describes in the memo, there were several areas of reported, you know, incidents that
 went on. But one of the most interesting parts is he recorded a tape. I believe it's about
 what, 13 minutes long, Nick? Was it 13? 17 minutes long of real-time what was going on.
 If you get a chance to listen to the tape, at one point you're going to hear him. Now
 whatever it is is coming at us from the south. There's a beam of light shining down on our
 feet. This is unreal. And you should hear the emotion in his voice. And this is a front-line
 officer that was a combat controller at one point. And you can clearly hear the concern
 in his voice. So there was several other incidents that took place also besides ours.
 So how many people actually saw this? Did anybody, I mean, I would think you were in
 a base or near a base, right? We were probably 300 yards from Woodbridge, working that night
 at Woodbridge and in Bentwaters. I know he said 40. That's probably the security flight
 with LA. It might have ran up to 60, maybe. I don't know, a little less. Of course, we
 also had, you know, like fire department and those folks. There was other people that seen
 this on night one. Right. And then, of course, there was the civilian numbers that we found
 out later on. We didn't realize how many there were. We thought it was pretty isolated as
 far as anybody seeing it. But we were wrong about that too. Yeah, I would have thought
 that someone would have probably come out and recorded it and looked at it and taken
 some of it. Did any other people, do you know, touch it? No, I was the only one out there
 that made physical contact. It's a hard question for me because John received contact too,
 but it wasn't, I don't believe, with a physical object. It was, he was engulfed in a beam
 of light out there. It also happened on the third night. I don't know why with him. That's
 even more fascinating why it would even happen twice. I mean, that's the unusual part of
 this. I mean, here you got a landing of craft of unknown origin. That's what I put in my
 report because I'm in the Air Force and that's what we do. We don't use those other words.
 And then on the, what, two days later, it's back and the base commander, the deputy base
 commander is going to put this to bed. He's going to debunk it. And his life changed too.
 So that's the way it came down and the way it worked. And all we want is, okay, an incident
 happened and we just want to be taken care of over it. And there's a lot of other veterans
 that were working that night. We also have access to about 240 of the other security
 policemen that were stationed at that twin bases there. And some of them have similar
 problems too. And we would, we'd like to, you know, we're working for them too, not
 just ourselves. So. >> Have you reconnected with some of the people
 that were there that night? >> Right. And I want you to know that the,
 I want to add this in. I know this wasn't a question, ma'am, but I want you to know
 that the wing commander, the base commander, those folks when we went in and gave them
 a sanitized version of what happened, because we were instructed to give them a sanitized
 version from OSI. They never asked one question, the wing commander. It's like he knew everything
 was going on out there. And we found documents recently that show why he reacted that way.
 So what should have happened if there was any doubt on our credibility or any doubt
 on our mental state, any doubt, any activity at all, I'm not sure if you're familiar with
 the Air Force personal reliability program, PRP. That's when each, all of us had the responsibility
 to look at the other person they're working with and say, well, he's acting odd or something
 strange or some odd behavior. You're supposed to report it immediately.
 What should have happened if there was any suspicion at all that we were not being completely
 honest or with the command element, they should have relieved us of duty for 30 days, had
 a medical evaluation, and then at 30-day mark, decide whether or not they're going to permanently
 decertify us under PRP or return us to duty. None of that happened. It's because we went
 out and reported what we'd seen. They believed everything we said. And then to reinforce
 it three nights later, Colonel Halt and his team go out. And when Colonel Halt called
 us in the office a few days later, like five days later after the first night, I was so
 happy to hear him say that he had an experience out there and he was backing up what I was
 saying from the first night. I said, good, it's off my shoulders. I got a soon-to-be
 full colonel taking responsibility, saying, OK, I'll take the fight from this point on.
 And he did, actually.
 In trying to get help through the military, has he collaborated? I mean, has he been there
 for you?
 Yes. The end result is what we looked at. And he has done up a letter that said that
 we were out there at a certain time and what happened. And we encountered a craft on an
 origin. He eludes to that. And he says that we were probably exposed to radiation. And
 this letter he did for us to go to the VA. So we are being aggressive with it that way.
 I have no problem being aggressive.
 Good. You need to be aggressive.
 I'm a retired sergeant. I have no problem doing that.
 Thank you.
 Can I bring up a point, ma'am?
 Yes, please.
 All right. You told us to be aggressive. Where was our chain of command when it came for
 them to be aggressive? After the incident happened, we were brought in and interrogated.
 They did nothing to stop that. They did nothing to step up and make sure that we were treated
 medically after the incident. OK, the chain of command is clearly partly, or at least
 partly, being prohibited and what they need to do because this incident has been classified.
 And not only has it been classified, it's been classified and kept away from the people
 that serve this country, which is the Senate and House of Representatives, the United States
 of America. And we're trying to do what we're trying to do, but at the same time, where
 are we going to go when people like Senator Kyle are prohibited from receiving records?
 Yeah. I was going to say . . .
 He . . .
 Go to a House member.
 Yeah. You have to . . . I tell this to . . . when I was in Congress, I told this to every person
 that came in that wanted anything or wanted any help.
 Excuse me. I yield the Congress home additional two minutes.
 All right. You also have to be very persistent with that member that you're dealing with,
 whether it's a Senator or a House member. You have to be persistent and say, "What have
 you found out? Is anything happening?" And talk to . . . I mean, if they've . . . most
 members have really great staff, talk to the staff and you just have to be just pound on
 them that you need to have this information. But I so appreciate you telling us this story.
 It's . . . I am embarrassed for our military that they don't come forward with the information
 so that you can get the kind of treatment that you need. So thank you, first of all,
 for serving. Again, I hope that there will be people that will step forward. You have
 to be consistent, be persistent, and hopefully you'll get the information you need. Thank
 you.
 Thank you, Congresswoman.
 I yield back.
 Thank you, Congresswoman. Congressman Cook?
 Yes. You know, I want to say that for any open-minded Americans out there, no matter
 how skeptical, this is very interesting stuff we're hearing today. Extremely interesting.
 And I'm surprised that not more Americans know about this Reynolds and Forrest incident.
 I'd like to ask . . . and I want to commend both sergeants for their service to our country
 and apologize for the United States government, even though I'm not in any official capacity
 at the moment for withholding important information. But let me start, Sergeant Burroughs, by asking
 you, you enlisted in the Air Force when you were . . . or in the year 1979, I think you
 said.
 Yes, sir, 1979.
 Okay. And how old were you at the time?
 I would have been 18 years old.
 Okay. And how old were you when you were made sergeant in the United States Air Force?
 I believe I was . . . I was 22 or 23 when I received my E-Force status. I can't remember
 exactly.
 Okay. So that would have been about 1982, '83?
 '82 or '83, if I'm correct.
 Okay. After the Reynolds and Forrest incident?
 Yes, sir.
 Okay. And I know that Nick Pope has indicated . . . or no, excuse me, Mr. Franscona, your
 attorney has indicated that the very first siding was with Sergeant Stephens and yourself.
 Yes, sir. Sergeant Stephens and I were on routine law enforcement patrol. We were down
 checking East Gate and we observed what was going on in the force.
 Okay. And Sergeant Stephens went to Sergeant Penniston. Am I right on that?
 Well, what happened was after we called it in, because he was a senior ranking individual,
 and Sergeant Penniston responded down to the gate, Sergeant Stephens briefed Sergeant Penniston
 on what was going on.
 Oh, I see. Okay. And you went back . . . after Sergeant Penniston wanted to investigate after
 what he had heard, you accompanied him?
 Yes. A decision was made by the on-duty shift commander after consultation with the squadron
 squad commander that we would go out and investigate, and Sergeant Penniston formed a team.
 And what happened to Sergeant Stephens that night?
 Sergeant Stephens was visibly shaken by what he was seeing in the forest, and there was
 two reasons why he didn't go out there. Number one, if he would have went out there also,
 there would have been nobody . . .
 Well, he needed somebody on patrol, right?
 Yeah, not only on patrol, but somebody in charge, because he was a senior ranking security
 officer, and Sergeant Stephens was a senior ranking law enforcement. But also, he really
 didn't want anything to do with it. Whatever he saw, what he was observing shook him up
 enough that he wanted to stay back, and he did not want to go into the forest.
 And is he still alive? Do you know . . .
 We've had trouble tracking down some individuals, but I do believe he is still currently alive.
 I'm particularly interested in this classified record system of the Veterans Affairs Administration,
 because I can tell you, our staff, during my tenure in the Congress, spent a great deal
 of time with the Veterans Affairs Administration, and I have never heard of a classified section
 within Veterans Affairs. Could you tell me, as much as you know, in that short period
 of time here, in about one minute . . .
 Yes, sir.
 What is a classified record section, and how many classified records do you believe are
 in there after your experience in dealing with them?
 Okay. What was summarized, not only in the letter from Senator Cowell's office, which
 says once your claim is being processed and is determined that needed records are classified,
 the request for those records can be made. What the staffer told me was that the VA has
 a section that they maintain records for certain operations, and didn't necessarily mean rentals
 from any type of military operations as classified, and it's up to the gaining command, Army,
 Air Force, or whatever, whether or not they will allow those records to be released to
 the VA so you can receive treatment. She said she came across this recently in the past
 two or three years when she was the same way, was being stymied on certain cases involving
 PTSD and Agent Orange, and that she made this available to us. Not only that, but the VA
 volunteered it again to her, saying that they would not even let her know if my records
 were classified or not until I filed a disability claim.
 In this question, I have no way in excusing a classified records section, especially with
 regards to medical records. I can't understand that when, as you say very correctly, Sergeant
 Burroughs, you are the owner of those medical records under the law of the United States.
 Even military laws, I understand it, and I'm not an expert on that, but that's the way
 I understand it. But as you found out about classified records sections, it's not just
 for people that have said, I mean people that are in classified sections aren't just for
 members of the, the veterans that have maybe made statements, as you've made, about things
 you've seen that relate to an identified flying object. Am I correct?
 >> That is correct. Yes, that is correct, sir. She said she became aware of it because
 of her work through Senator, you know, with Senator Kyle for veterans and their assistance,
 and she specifically said it was for PTSD and Agent Orange that they came across this.
 And she also told me that very few members of Congress were aware of this.
 >> I'd like to hear from Sergeant Penniston on this question. If those records were handed
 to you today, what do you think would be on those records? Again, these would be records
 from the period, what, '80, December of 1980 to say '82 or '83, or whenever you had those
 medical evaluations while you were in the Air Force.
 >> Yeah, there would be a paper trail of my increasing medical condition from the night
 of the incident, and it showed progressive issues, and that's what it would show. The
 opportunity that we would have this time is that we will actually say that we were exposed
 to radiation, and I think that would change how the doctors would look at that.
 >> You believe that the records would absolutely show that you've been exposed to the radiation?
 >> Well, the conditions that were, that I explained to the doctors at the time, I think
 will verify that. But I think Colonel Hall has also done that by issuing that letter
 to the VA. Yeah, I think that's what.
 >> Anything else that might be on those medical records, would your heart condition that you
 talked about show up there?
 >> There would be showing treatment for vision problems, which were related to my heart,
 and he had no, he could not figure out why I was having the vision problems I have. This
 was a full-blown specialist down at Wilford Hall where they ended up sending me, and he
 did look at me at one point and say, "Were you ever exposed to radiation?"
 >> Yeah, and you had, you were a pretty young man, that's kind of unusual at that age, especially
 you passed your physical exams to get enlisted into the Air Force, I take it. That's a pretty
 young age to be having heart difficulties, but you do believe those records would show
 that. I take your answer was yes.
 >> Yes, sir. The records was clearly established that I came in healthy, and shortly after
 the incident, I became ill.
 >> For either one of you, sergeants, what has been the CIA reaction to your FOIA requests?
 >> Do you want to hear from us, or turn it over directly?
 >> Well, maybe we ought to hear from a lawyer, if you know, or whoever can answer that the
 best.
 >> Well, to answer that question, frustrating is the first word that, and the one I've already
 used in regard to them.
 >> But what was their reaction? I understand yours.
 >> Theirs was the typical, what they term, the Glomar, from the Glomar Challenger, responds,
 which is they can neither confirm nor deny whether they know anything, basically.
 >> And is that, do they know something, the CIA? I mean-
 >> Well, they won't confirm or deny that.
 >> Yeah, but I mean, I'm talking about your, and I'm only, I'm not talking about the incident,
 I'm talking about the medical records here.
 >> Oh, well, no, the requests propounded to them included medical records, or any and
 all records, I really should say. So they don't tell you what they do or don't have
 in regards to anything. And whether they actually have something or not, who knows? I mean,
 but I have to believe, based also on the boots that were on the ground, that there were the
 people there.
 >> Okay, now, do either of the sergeants have any other feeling about the CIA, or not about
 the CIA?
 >> About the State Department, we can bring up.
 >> I'd love to hear what you think about the State Department's reaction. Again, not to
 the sightings or anything, but to the medical records.
 >> Okay. When the State Department was given a FOIA request, they admitted to having records
 on file.
 >> The State Department has admitted?
 >> Yes, they did.
 >> Which would make it an-
 >> The State Department and the CIA is-
 >> Yes, but that would mean it was an international incident, because Department of State was
 involved in a foreign country. But what they did then was say that they belonged to United
 States Air Force, and it was up to the Air Force to decide whether or not they would
 be released. The United States Air Force claims there's no records on file.
 >> Okay. And besides the two Arizona senators that have been talked about, McCain and Kyle,
 I'd like to ask you about Senator James Exon, who was a member of the Senate Armed Services
 Committee. I understand he said that he had spent more time looking into this particular
 incident than any other case in his quote. I think I've got this right. Since I've been
 a U.S. Senator, while he's said that additional information like a seven interagency memorandum
 is on file, he says that he feels there's been no cover-up. Now, why did he say that?
 In your opinions, or the opinion of the attorney, or anybody else that-
 >> Well, in my opinion, the Air Force, after the incident broke, the memo was released,
 they contacted us and wanted us to have brief contact with the press admitting what happened.
 There was something that happened out there, but they didn't want us to go into detail.
 And with the MOD saying no defense significance, and the Air Force saying there's no cover-up,
 what they're basically saying is an incident took place, and we're not lying that it took
 place. But what we're not available and willing to do is go into what's been classified and
 what the final outcome was. >> Well, I'd have to say that if they admit
 that an incident's taken place without identifying what that incident-
 >> Excuse me, Congressman. Let me yield you an additional two minutes on the record, please.
 >> Well, I appreciate that, Chair. It seems to me, and I think, and I hope I'm a fair-minded
 person, but I'd like to say any other fair-minded person, that if they've admitted that an incident
 has taken place, we don't have to get them to admit maybe your interpretation of what
 you saw, or what you, they don't have to admit what you saw. But they sure have to admit
 that there's no reason to hold your medical records, and this is very disturbing to me,
 because the only, what could possibly be a reason to withhold from the person whose medical
 record it is, a medical record, if they've confirmed the incident, which they have. Would
 you, that's why I'm not necessarily agreeing with Senator Exxon here, and saying, I don't
 see how this can be unless a cover-up has taken place. And I don't mean to be throwing
 uninformed statements out here, but you cannot admit that there was an incident. I'd just
 like to clarify this point once more, because I want to be careful the way I'm saying it.
 And then insist on classifying a medical record related to that incident, and it doesn't matter
 what the incident absolutely is or was, and we don't even have to talk about whether it
 was a UFO, whether it was, as you say, Sergeant Penniston, you're not totally a believer in
 ET, but you believe that you saw definitely an unidentified maneuvering object. Well,
 that is solid evidence then. And I'm not saying exactly what you saw is right now, but I'm
 saying that is evidence that's indisputed as far as being a cover-up.
 Excuse me. Thank you. Eel back, Congressman. Thank you. I have a request from one of our
 members who would like a second shot at this, and we'd like to give him the time allotted.
 Congressman.
 Thank you very much. I have some questions about the radiation. I understand that the
 next day or so they went in and found radiation. If you irradiate food to preserve it, if you
 then take the food away from the radiation source, there is no radiation coming from
 the food. If there was radiation found at that site the next day or so, something was
 left there from which the radiation was coming. Radiation is like light beams. It's gone when
 you pull the source away. The radiation is gone. What was left there?
 Nick, go ahead.
 Yes. Colonel Holt investigated the landing site from the first night shortly before he
 had his own encounter, and the disaster preparedness officer, Sergeant Monroe Nevels, noticed that
 not only were there indentations in the ground where this thing had apparently landed, three
 indentations forming essentially a triangular shape, but the inside, this was in a clearing,
 the insides of the trees seemed to him to have been scorched and burned somewhat. Again,
 the document, the February 23rd Ministry of Defense document that you have is from the
 scientific and technical intelligence part of the defense intelligence staff. I'm not
 a scientist myself, so I can't speak to the technicalities of it, but clearly a number
 of people who looked at the landing site after Jim and John's account certainly got close
 to all this. This is again one of the reasons why this is of some concern. A number of these
 people have gone on the record, but a number have not and may not even be aware that there
 are potential health care issues arising from the radiation.
 But am I not correct that if radiation was coming from the site, something was left there
 from which the radiation was coming? Radiation is like a light beam. If you take the source
 away, the source of light away, there isn't any light. Take the source of radiation away,
 there isn't any radiation unless you leave something there that is irradiating. What was
 left there?
 I don't know, sir.
 Okay. I'd be very curious what was left there that was radiating. You said that the trees
 were scorched, but when it took off, there was no heat. There was no backwash. And why
 would there be indentations in the soil? Because you saw it hovering. It wasn't even touching
 the soil.
 That's the way it appeared, sir. It would be hovering. But the only thing it was emulating
 on it was light, and not unless the light caused indentions. I don't know. It's beyond
 my -- I can guess on it.
 One last question. Sometimes we have things so difficult to deal with that we don't deal
 with them. They're locked away in our mind, and they're accessible only through hypnosis.
 You said that when you came out of the hypnotic state, that the hypnotist seemed somewhat
 --
 Distressed.
 Distressed, whatever word.
 Yes, she was. She was distressed.
 Did she write a report that is available? What did you tell her under hypnosis that
 made her respond that way?
 Well, I went into the incident. The problem that she was having in what created a second
 hypnosis was when I got to the landing site, I would jump to OSI. I'd be in the OSI room.
 And she says -- she's read about this. She says, "But I'm not sure." And she says, "What
 I'm thinking it is," she says, "I think your memory's been blocked." And she says, "Now,
 why would they do that?" And I says, "I don't know."
 Both of you fell down when there was a light from this. Does that understand that?
 Yes, sir.
 Do you have any idea how long you were on the ground before you got up?
 Seconds.
 But that's what you -- when I go under anesthetic, I -- five hours, and it doesn't seem like
 I have any time as a lapse. How do you know it was seconds?
 Well, there is a time distortion. I mean, that -- you can get with adrenaline and things
 like that. It can -- you know, more time can go by than actually that you realize. I understand
 that. The craft was on the ground of 45 minutes. I mean, it's not like it was -- the reason
 we know exactly the minutes on that, by the way, is after we got back in, our watches
 were all 45 minutes off.
 Oh, gosh.
 Your watches were 45 minutes off, so maybe you were unconscious for 45 minutes.
 I wasn't unconscious. I mean, I --
 But, sir, if you become unconscious and become conscious again, you may have no sense of
 that. I can put a hood over your head, and you will breathe nitrogen, and you will become
 unconscious. And if I then give you oxygen, you will be conscious, and you will have no
 knowledge that you were unconscious. To your knowledge, you were not unconscious. That
 doesn't mean that you weren't unconscious.
 Well, every time I've been given anesthetic, I know I was under anesthetic.
 There's some little trauma going under anesthesia, but in this case, there wasn't any.
 One interesting note was the shift commander confirmed they lost radio contact with us
 for over 45 minutes.
 Correct.
 Okay. But I'm very curious what that 45 minutes was. Maybe you were unconscious for 45 minutes.
 I have no idea.
 It's possible.
 Thank you very much, Madam Chairman.
 You're very welcome. We're nearing our break, but I am going to allow Senator Gravel to
 have two minutes to comment to you, and then we'll have a break.
 You made a statement that there was another military personnel, female personnel who drove
 up and her car or her vehicle was shut off, not by her, and how did she get out? And did
 she suffer any disabilities as a result of this?
 Two things that stand out with that. Now, at one point, her vehicle was shut down. She
 was relieved of duty, and in fact, she should have been the on-duty shift commander on the
 night of Colonel Hall's incident. She wasn't present. At our level, we would not have been
 briefed on what treatment she received or what the final outcome was, but not only was
 her vehicle shut down, but on the third night, the light-offs and radios were malfunctioning.
 They couldn't even get the lights to come on out in the fields, which clearly points
 towards there was some kind of electrical interference.
 And this has been reported. Mr. Pope, is this part of the record that there was a general
 shutdown of electrical service or energy service during this period of time?
 I can't recall, sir, whether the documents say that, but Colonel Holt and a number of
 the other people, but particularly Holt, because he was the deputy base commander, has gone
 on the record and confirmed that. Yes, sir.
 Good. Thank you, Madam Chairman.
 You're very welcome. We now come to a 15-minute break time. Our witnesses will rejoin us,
 and I'm getting another note.
 Yes, yes.
 Okay. Is that the congressman?
 I apologize.
 That's okay. Just for a moment, Congressman Cook has asked for an additional minute.
 Well, even just 30 seconds. I meant to ask you this earlier, Sergeant Burroughs. You indicated
 you were promoted to sergeant after this incident occurred. Can you give us some indication
 of maybe the year or two after the incident occurred, any thing you said? Clearly they
 weren't denying you of being a member of the Air Force at that time, so I'm trying to just
 understand did you kind of, well, were you being politically correct for a year or two,
 and then what I'm trying to understand is the time scale on when they started saying
 that you weren't even a member of the Air Force. Do you understand?
 Yes, sir. That just came up on our inquiries that are going on now that when I did get
 a little bit of my records released, there was no DD form 214 in there, and also the
 fact that the doctor that was interviewing me that day said there was no record. Now,
 that doesn't mean that technically the Air Force is saying that I wasn't in. What they're
 trying to do is show that whatever part of the incident took place is classified in my
 records or in those files, and one other interesting note I want to bring up to you, a few years
 after the incident, I went down to Maxwell Air Force Base, and I went into the, you know
 how they keep the history of the wings in the base. I went in and requested the history
 of the wing, the 81st Tech Fighter Wing in 1980. When they gave me the files, December
 of 1980 was missing. It was pulled and was classified.
 So maybe that's why you were promoted. Well, I don't know. I'm not making a statement
 here. I just wanted to get a better sense of it.
 We've got a couple announcements from Mr. Bookman before we go on recess, and we will
 be back in 15 minutes, and the same witnesses will see you at that time.
