 It's called the Hearing Back to Order.
 It's been wonderful.
 We are into our last 50, 60 minutes of it, and it's, again, an honor to have chaired
 it and all of my members who have been invited to come, we appreciate your time as well.
 Many have said they appreciate our time, and we think it's a mutual thing because there's
 -- in Congress, you can only be good at a couple things, and those are your major two
 committees, and you rely on others to help you get through the mirage of all of the rest
 of it.
 And this is new for many of us, and we appreciate you very much.
 We thought in this last hour or so that we'd go back to the panel first, if you have any
 comments that you'd like to make, and then the members will question, and then the members
 will have closing remarks.
 We'll try to make time for that, and if you'd like to make a closing remark as well, we'll
 do that.
 I'd like to start off with this session with one question for all of you experienced men
 of this government and otherwise.
 Why do you believe today and 30, 40 years ago, the military primary -- primarily has
 suppressed the whole idea of what might be unidentified flying objects or extraterrestrial?
 And we can start anywhere, but why do you think they've done that?
 Never mentioned it again?
 Act like it never happened?
 It didn't really happen?
 You know, those kinds of things.
 Is there something we ought to know there?
 Anybody got a comment on that?
 Sure.
 First of all, I think it's the technology factor.
 If they do have tangible objects in hand and have learned some technology, that is a very
 valuable stuff.
 That we don't have.
 Technology that we don't currently have.
 That they have recovered, yes.
 Oh, that they've recovered of ours.
 If they have recovered, UFO technology, that is very valuable stuff, and that's worth keeping
 a secret.
 The other thing is, if they were to let the general public know that they have no control
 over these objects, that they chase them, they can't catch them, that's something they
 didn't want the public to really know.
 Those are very good.
 The first being that our country may have acquired some new technology that we learned
 from them.
 Was that your first point?
 Was your point something like that?
 That was my first point.
 If they have recovered technology.
 Okay.
 All right.
 And the second point.
 That is one reason for keeping it secret.
 The other one is they wouldn't want the public to know that they have no control over these
 objects.
 These objects that are seemingly controlled by some kind of intelligence.
 And why would they not want the public to know that we don't know what's there, or that
 they might be superior?
 Mr. Scott?
 They're afraid that we would panic.
 We as a people?
 We as a country?
 As a country, as the world, they're afraid that western civilization would collapse,
 western religion would collapse.
 Your mind can go crazy on thinking the worst thing.
 And if you say, well, let's bring a one world government into this for a defense, well,
 that could prove to be a one world dictatorship also.
 So I can understand why the military and intelligence is keeping a lid on this until they might
 feel safe to let the cat out of the bag, but it's going to happen anyway.
 Yeah.
 And those are very good points.
 Both of those.
 I'm going to let Mrs. Hollis and I'm going to come to Mr. Dole.
 Okay.
 I'll just take the obvious in regards to my case, and that is these objects know in great
 detail how our missiles operate.
 They know ours, but we don't know theirs.
 That's right.
 They can shut down our missiles at any time.
 They have proven that.
 They know in great detail how they operate.
 And so if you release that information to public, what do you say then about, you know,
 what kind of defense do we have against these things?
 Anyone else?
 Yes, sir.
 Captain.
 Well, they could shut our missiles down until we put EMF filters on our missiles in the
 early '70s, and by '76, they couldn't shut them down, because in my opinion of the EMF
 filters and some of the documentation that Robert Salles got unsealed, I looked at and
 found, in fact, in '68, after studying his shutdowns, they were looking at EMF as a problem.
 And I do distinctly remember our missiles being pulled offline one at a time before
 our incident happened and asked one of the members of the security maintenance teams,
 and they let it out of the bag that it was an EMF filter, and then they got shushed for
 it.
 And I also accompanied a nuclear warhead or crew duty.
 Additional duty would be to do that on a convoy where we took a nuclear warhead out to a missile
 site to be replaced, to swap it out.
 So in my opinion, the EMF filters caused a problem to these entities until they worked
 around that by the time in 2010.
 I don't want to disagree with Mr. Vestermarker, but I would like to point out that about the
 incident that I just mentioned in 2010, the jury's still out as to whether or not that
 was a UFO incident where 50 nuclear missiles were shut down while objects were seen overhead.
 But I certainly agree that after our incident in the early days, electromagnetic pulse or
 electromagnetic force was considered a possible cause for the shutdowns, and the Air Force
 did have an active program to improve the EMP protection.
 Mr. Darlan?
 Yes.
 I think the answers of technology and panic are probably top of the list.
 Certainly if even one artifact of a UFO were ever recovered, and those who've studied this
 matter in detail most believe that that is the case, one can easily see why that would
 be of paramount interest to keep from other parties that you don't want to have that technology.
 So the only way to do that for sure is to deny that there's a phenomenon that exists
 whatsoever.
 But we actually know from the declassified literature that even as early as 1947, there
 were wind tunnel tests of disk-shaped airframes that were being conducted at Wright Field
 in Dayton, Ohio, and these were explicitly based on UFO sightings.
 We have a document from October 1947 authored by Colonel Wentworth, I believe, in which
 he references this.
 So the obvious connection between UFO sightings alone and technological development is right
 there from the beginning.
 But the idea of panic is the worst, because what we find in many cases is that panic can
 escalate very quickly. 30 years ago in the lower New York state, Hudson Valley, for about
 three, four years there were a series of unbelievably incredible sightings by thousands of people.
 This got the attention very quickly of national media by 1984.
 The FAA quickly and clearly had, what could they literally say to the world?
 "Yes, there's these enormous boomerang-shaped objects flying over the Taconic Parkway.
 But don't worry, even though we don't know who they are, we don't think they're here
 to eat us."
 There's just nothing that you could say, literally, to the public that would assuage their fears.
 In 1997 over Phoenix, we have the incident of the famous Phoenix Lights, in which Governor
 Fife Symington at a press conference a few days later brought out a big guy in an alien
 costume and basically through cold water over the whole thing ridiculed it.
 Ten years later, Governor Symington at this national press conference in 2007 said, not
 only did we have to do that to prevent public panic, which was in danger of escalating greatly
 at that moment, but I myself saw the object in question and it was unbelievable and he
 offered his strong opinion. He's an experienced pilot, by the way, that this is not anything
 from our civilization.
 I've had an opportunity to visit three or four aircraft carriers that a hundred or more
 planes can fly off of in my defense experience and the young men and women on ship who, nuclear
 submarines I might ask, aircraft carriers as well as nuclear submarines, I've seen
 the nukes lined up on the submarine, I don't know, 1,500 deep look like in rows.
 We are supposedly the defense country of the world. If there's something in our atmosphere
 in the world that may question that, it seems to me, this member, that we need to take a
 look at it. If they wanted to blow us up, seems like they'd have done it 20, 30, 40
 years ago. Maybe they want to coexist, but to not even begin to, whatever, you guys got
 more intelligence than I have. It's just the wrong way. I mean, there won't be a world.
 Who wants that?
 Then my last one at this time would be the press, the press, very, very powerful. Do
 any of you know of any occasions where the press might have been, I don't know, caused
 to go one way or the other? Positive or make joke of it or all? Captain Salas?
 Thank you, Ms. Gilpatrick. In 2004, I was contacted by the Peter Jennings group who's
 putting together a UFO special and flown to Dallas, Texas for about two or three days.
 They interviewed me for a couple of days, got a lot of footage, said I had great testimony
 and they were going to feature my testimony on their special. With a week before that
 special, the Peter Jennings special on UFOs was to be broadcast. I got a call saying that
 they couldn't, they wouldn't be using my interview. There are other members here in
 the audience that were also interviewed for this. To me, they gave me no reason. I'm just
 suspicious that somebody got to them and did not want this story out.
 Anyone else have any press? Before we go to the members, does anyone else at the table
 like to make a final statement as we go through? It may not be your final because we're going
 to interact a little bit longer, but if you want to add something at this point, otherwise
 I'll go right. Mr. Scott, Sergeant Scott?
 I'd like to see the military and the local police be able to have their people, if they
 see a sighting or respond to a sighting, to be able to give an honest report of it. Because
 if it's a lie, if it's a joke and that, it's very easy to find that out quickly. If it's
 not, then what we're doing is gathering more intelligence information on a possible friend
 out there or a possible enemy. The more information we gather, the better it is for us. Right
 now the police department, my brother's a retired policeman, they would send a rookie
 cop out to investigate. They didn't want to do it. They would laugh about it. But once
 he found out I was coming here, then he got more serious after all these years and they
 told me he believed also.
 Very good. Thank you. Are you hearing, sir? Okay. Let me then open it up to our members
 for our final or we can have some dialogue for a little while. Let me start with Councilman
 Bartlett.
 Thank you. I've been looking at some of the press clippings from yesterday's session and
 the government has been quite successful in relegating this issue to the lunatic fringe.
 I have several articles. I'm going to comment on only one of them and I really don't know
 where it played. It says the mock Congress hearing on aliens is heavy on real-life Mulders
 and not Scullies. I didn't know who Mulders and Scullies were until I read it. But apparently
 in the X-Files, Agent Fox Mulder believes in all things, little green men, Roswell men
 in black, whatever, and Agent Dana Sculley believes in science. Sculley forces Mulder
 to find hard evidence that there's a massive conspiracy to cover up aliens' existence.
 The problem with this week's alien panel, that we're an alien panel now, at the National
 Press Club is that any of the participating members of Congress who might nationally be
 a Scully have been incented to suspend their disbelief because the Citizen Hearing Foundation
 is paying them $20,000 plus expenses to listen to the testimony. That's just insulting that
 we can be bought for $20,000. That's ridiculous. It goes on to say that panelists, and I mention
 the panelists and I'm one of the panelists, and former member Roscoe Bartlett, in an opening
 statement, Bartlett said he hadn't fulfilled his duty in office by failing to hold hearings
 on extraterrestrials. I never said that. What I had said was that the Congress, I a part
 of it, had failed in its responsibility to respond to the constitutional requirement
 that we had a responsibility to respond to people to petition their government for a
 redress of grievances. It's in the First Amendment. It's very clear. I never said that I believed
 in extraterrestrials. I believe that there are sightings out there that cannot be easily
 explained away. That is one of the possible explanations of them. There may be others.
 But I never made that statement. Compounding the problem of eyebrow-raising testimonies
 that several of these politicians have reputations for being a little wacky.
 What does that end? Who said that? I don't know. Who said that? Who wrote it?
 I don't know. You tell me. No, no. Who's it from? What network of paper?
 I don't know. I can't tell you. This is the article. You tell me where it came from.
 It's terrible. It's terrible. Yeah. I want to read on. This is why I'm wacky. Bartlett
 has warned of the dangers of an electromagnetic pulse, a theoretical nuclear blast in space
 that would fry electrical circuits and kill the Internet. This is not theoretical.
 We did precisely that in 1962 over at Johnson Island. It's called Starfish Prime, and it
 shut down – we didn't have any electronics in '62. It shut down electrical equipment
 in Hawaii 800 miles away. The Congress set up an EMP commission. It functioned for eight
 years for four congresses. It was chaired by Dr. Bill Graham, the science advisor to
 President Reagan. Johnny Foster was on it, the father of most of our nuclear weapons.
 Dr. Joan Woodard was on it. She is the deputy director at Sandia Labs. And Dr. Lowell Wood
 from Lawrence Livermore was on it. This is the person that Tom Clancy told me, and his
 view was the smartest man hired by the U.S. government. That commission functioned for
 eight years. As a result of their functioning, the Pentagon has set up a permanent commission
 of permanent panel task force on EMP. John Kyle has made a statement that says that this
 is one of the few – as a matter of fact, I think it's the only event I know of – that
 could end us as a sovereign nation. You can read his comment on that.
 You know, I'm just insulted that the press does this. You know, these statements have
 no basis in reality. And I want to point out something else, how successful they've been.
 Here is a fact sheet that is put out by the Air Force. And it's about Unidentified Flying
 Objects and Air Force Project Blue Book. They did everything they could to debunk 12,800
 – 618 sightings, but 701 of them they could not find any way to rationalize it away. That's
 a pretty large number. And then they make two statements. You know, one thing they say
 is that there was never any indication of threat to our national security. Then why
 in heck the classification, the secret classification, that there's no threat to our security?
 Most of these things are just mutually exclusive, aren't they? You can't say one and then
 not – and then say the other. They said there was no evidence submitted to or discovered
 by the Air Force that sightings categorized as unidentified represented technology developed
 – developments or principles beyond the range of modern scientific knowledge. It reminds
 me of Goebbels in his statement, "Just say it often enough, no matter how big the lie
 and people will soon believe it." We have radar tracks. We have radar tracks showing
 that these objects, whatever they are, behave in ways that known aircraft of no country
 in the world can do. That just isn't true. There was no evidence indicating that sightings
 categorized as unidentified were extraterrestrial vehicles. That's true. But there is a lot
 of evidence – but there was a lot of evidence – that they couldn't be anything that
 is publicized by either our country or by Russia or by China. China is now entering
 as a player in this – in this domain. I'm generally a pretty quiet individual, but you
 know, this press – this press stuff is just clear – clearly outrageous. The audacity
 and the ignorance of something like that just infuriates me.
 (Applause.)
 And then this same press that is ridiculing what we're doing today is totally silent
 when the Air Force puts out a fact sheet like this that is anything but a fact sheet because
 there are statements on it that are clearly, clearly not true. You know, this – there
 has to be an accountability for this, does there not? Thank you for holding this hearing.
 Thank you.
 (Applause.)
 Thank you. Thank you.
 (Applause.)
 Congresswoman Woesey.
 Well, I have a thought. And the thought is, once there can be disclosure about what is
 out there and what is coming in and an understanding, which will take certainly hearings within
 the Congress and in the House and the Senate. But we have a big question, and that question
 is, are we doing this because we are going to arm space? And you know, let's just talk
 about getting rid of humanity in general. One more war, but it's up there in space.
 We don't want to do that. And I just think this is the sneaky way to get there by not
 admitting that there's all of this challenge out there. And I honestly believe that the
 visitors, the UFOs, have shown us what they can do. I mean, they can turn off full nuclear
 sites. And they don't have -- that's probably why we have seen less and less recently because
 they've done what -- you know, if humans can't figure out what they're capable of, then there's
 no -- they don't need to show us any other way. Because I don't -- they obviously -- they
 may be -- probably aren't violent, because if they were -- did what they're capable of,
 they'd probably be eating some of us. You know?
 Annihilating.
 But they're annihilating us, yes. And we don't, you know, come on. We need to talk about this.
 We need to be furious how the press is covering it. And they will. But thank you, everybody.
 And we've got three more days of this, you know. So we'll be thanking, I guess, until
 the cows come home here. But we've got some work to do. And our world has some work to
 do, not just the United States of America. So thank you, Madam Chairman.
 Sure.
 Senator?
 Well, I'm sorry I ruined his afternoon, because I brought the press stuff to his attention.
 [laughter]
 It's garbage. I mean, it's garbage. But does that surprise you? I would ask one question
 on the Peter Jennings. Did they go on with the show?
 Yes, sir, they did.
 They just took you out.
 They just took me out. And I think --
 Did they have any good evidence in the show at all?
 Not in my opinion.
 Good.
 I mean, that's par for the course for mainstream media. He brought to my attention, so he's
 ruining my afternoon. This is the fact sheet put out by the government. There is no evidence
 indicating that sightings categorized as unidentified were extraterrestrial. What else could they
 be? There's no -- I mean -- and this, I think -- I want to hit a couple of you on this.
 You know, you could say, "Well, we're skeptical." Sure, I'm skeptical of everything. But by
 the same token, if there's no other rational reason for something, you have to come to
 a conclusion. And the conclusion I can share with you, which is just logic, is if there's
 anything in this whole compendium of knowledge of UFOs, it's got to be what happened at Minot
 and Wyoming and so forth. What's been proven is that somebody out there, extraterrestrial,
 can shut off our defense capability just like that. Just like that. Now, how do you think
 that makes the people in Congress who are appropriating billions and billions of dollars
 for a defense system that doesn't work if you really push the shove?
 (Applause.)
 And so if there's ever a rationale for the government in cahoots with the military-industrial
 complex to defend the appropriation process that feeds them, it's got to be what's been
 discovered and they've got to put a lid on this. I mean, this makes these -- all this
 wealth obsolete. I'll give you an example of what happened recently. It happened in Alaska.
 You know, we've got these silos in Alaska. We've got 16 of them. And, of course, nobody's
 proven that they work, except the phony testing that's been done. Now, as soon as this -- we
 had this craze with North Korea. What happened? They appropriated money for another 14 silos.
 That will make 13 silos to go after North Korea. And I don't know if any of you know
 the defense concept. It's more expensive to build a shield than to build a spear. So you
 build all the shields you want. All they do is have more spears to get by your shields.
 So this is the first thing I learned in one of the hearings on this subject. So it doesn't
 take -- you have to go very far to realize that what we have here is the goods of why
 the simple, simple rational formulation that this threatens the entire Defense Department's
 capability. And so deny it. It doesn't happen. It doesn't exist. Anybody talks about it,
 they're idiots. And so the press goes along with this. And we go back to our conclusion
 of yesterday. You know, I tried to conclude that we have a country ruled by juntas, military
 juntas and corporations in cahoots with our corporations. But what's been raised, and
 I hate to monopolize it on -- but maybe this afternoon is going to go too fast, but stop
 and think what we've concluded. That we're supposed to -- now, we didn't take an oath
 here. You took an oath. We didn't take an oath. But obviously you assume that all politicians
 are truthful. Well, that's a fair sum. But let me point out to you that the hope is,
 is that we will go back to members of Congress and try to persuade them as to the knowledge
 that we've acquired. Well, I for one will confess, I don't know anybody in a sense that
 I could approach that could give me five minutes' time on this particular subject, before or
 after the hearing. But what this hearing has done is not so much that it's going to persuade
 Congress. It's a first step to persuading the American public, or getting information
 out to the public. And that's where I think the great benefit and the contribution made
 with this hearing. But I just want to add one thing, and I'll follow through on it tomorrow
 or the day after. And that is, it's fine. We can educate the public. But does the public
 have any power to act on this new knowledge that they have? I don't see that. All they
 can do on election day is vote for people like us, who when we're there don't pay attention
 to this. This is the problem we have. So I leave it at that. I was going to ask about
 the $20,000. They're complaining about $20,000. This is five days, eight hours for five days.
 When the likes of these pundits go out and speak, they get $30,000 for an hour. They
 get $100,000 for an hour and a half. I mean, it's ridiculous that it took, that this is
 raised by, and it was raised in an interview. Somebody raised it with me. And I says, "Well,
 what do you get paid when you're out on a stump?" This was somebody from Fox. And he
 confessed. $25,000, $30,000 is what he gets for an hour. And we're putting in 40 hours
 here. So we're underpaid, if anything, based upon the knowledge that we have.
 So I think we've concluded the reason for the cover-up. And that's really what we discovered
 today, this afternoon, was that somebody can shut off our defense just like that. And it's
 an embarrassment to the Air Force. It's an embarrassment to the federal government. It's
 an embarrassment to the Congress. And, of course, nobody wants to face that embarrassment.
 That I yield. I reserve the balance of my time in case I want to come back.
 That's right. That's right. Thank you, Senator, very much.
 Thank you.
 Congresswoman Hooley?
 Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, I'd like to thank our panel. You have been
 terrific. And anyone that wants to jump in and answer this question, I'm originally from
 North Dakota. I'm very familiar with Minot. So I have a problem with understanding why
 anyone would go to Minot. I'm sorry. That's not a good thing. I love you, North Dakota.
 But wherever they come from, somebody is in Minot shutting off the missiles. Why? I mean,
 is that to show us that they can do that? Why would you do that?
 First of all, the world is facing a crisis right now about nuclear weapons. I don't have
 to remind you about those possibilities in countries that are trying to acquire nuclear
 weapons. And we've had enough nuclear weapons to destroy every living thing on Earth for
 a long, long time. And it would not take much to start a nuclear war, in my opinion. And
 that risk is getting worse. So I do believe that -- and I think they are extraterrestrial,
 and this is just my opinion -- that they are here to at least point to the fact that we
 are on the verge of annihilation, of suicide, if you will, our own civilization. And they
 would like to see us get rid of these weapons. And that's a message I got from my incident.
 It's my own conclusion that this was strictly a message. Get rid of your weapons. Get rid
 of those nuclear weapons. They are not weapons of war, by the way. They're weapons of mass
 destruction. They would never be used in a real war, because it would just be a complete
 suicide for civilization, like I said.
 Anyone else want to jump in? Yes. Sergeant Scott? Yeah. In June of 2001, President Bush
 came on scene on ABC News, and it was carried throughout the networks and in Popular Mechanics
 magazine. He had with him a general from the Air Force, and he was announcing that the
 general was going to be the head of a new military force called the Space Force, and
 they were going to build this force and also put a military base on the moon. Now nobody
 questioned him on why. What was the purpose for that? But then September 11th comes around.
 The terrorist attack comes. This general is posted as the chairman of the Joint Chiefs
 of Staff, and the Space Force never comes about. The question I have still, why did
 he want to create a new military force for outer space unless there's a threat? We have
 one. We have a space force. It's in existence. And it's been written about extensively. It's
 there. Okay. All right. Some acknowledge it and some don't. But your point's well taken,
 Sergeant. Is that the Black Ops? Black Ops, that's the real. Well, yeah, I know. You want
 me to answer that? No. No, I won't. No. Let me go to Congress. Oh, I'm sorry. He jumped
 in. Right, I'm sorry. You're absolutely right. Continuous. Your time, Congresswoman. I'd like
 to hear from you. I just said what he's talking about is Black Ops. And I don't doubt that.
 But I'm concerned that they're trying to tell us. I don't quite totally agree with Bob,
 but I do agree with you. That's okay. I think they're at least trying to tell us to pay
 attention. We have the power to do this. Be careful. And one of my, I've got scenarios
 in my mind about, I've thought about this an awful lot. And one of my scenarios is perhaps
 in fact they've communicated with the leaders of the world and said back off from this stuff,
 or else you're going to annihilate yourself. And maybe that's why we cut back some of our
 missiles. And other scenarios, do these, I'll call them beings, do these entities, are we
 aware of these entities enough that they can go public instead of saying you can't handle
 the truth, we can't handle the truth, and going public with an innocuous thing like
 harmless beings that are visiting us just to keep in touch and everything's fine, or
 do they consider us a species like we consider apes a species, or dolphins, or perhaps rodents,
 or perhaps insects? You know, so that sort of thing I don't want to know about. If it's
 just the fact that they're visiting and they're kind of trying to tell us to watch out for
 nuclear, they can come forward with that. The government should come forward to let
 us know, to ease our minds a bit. However, if it's the other scenarios, I just want to
 come forward and lie to us and tell us the entities are nice beings and they just want
 to warn us about nuclear. I can't handle that truth that we're insects to these beings.
 Thank you so much. Yes, David?
 You've asked us to speculate. I don't know. You probably don't know.
 No, I don't.
 But these missiles being shut down, Captain Salas described two flights that he's aware
 of. I described to you one flight of 10 missiles that I'm aware of, but I'm also aware of other
 launch officers who've described to me similar situations. So, you know, it's not unique
 that him and I have been involved here. I mean, this was a situation that was occurring
 quite often when I served in 1966 and '67. And who knows that it's not still happening
 out there? There is no act of officers of any kind that will come out and admit that
 right now. But what I'd like to know is what's your speculation on these missiles being shut
 down?
 Is that rhetorical, or you need an answer?
 I'd like an answer to that.
 Okay, let me come back to you.
 Because I'm sure it would be just as good as my answer.
 I might have something to end on, too. Let me get --
 Let me offer one very -- 30-second opinion. I feel that we really do not have enough data,
 even now, to know exactly why this is happening. Because despite the number of cases where
 this does appear to have happened, there are thousands of missiles. And not all of them
 have been shut down, as far as we can tell. So if they're doing this, they're obviously
 not doing it uniformly. And I just -- I don't really feel that any researcher who has enough
 data to know precisely what those motivations might be. They obviously -- they seem to have
 demonstrated superiority over our technology. That's for sure. So at discrete moments, they
 seem to be able to do this. But they're not doing it uniformly. And they certainly haven't
 stopped all of the massive wars that have, you know, run over the planet. So there are
 certain limits as to what they're willing to do, as well.
 Thank you. And I yield back my time. Madam Chair?
 Thank you, Congresswoman -- Congressman Cook.
 Thank you. From the things that you've described today, you all must have done what Captain
 Fenstermarker just indicated he has done. That's think about these things a lot during
 the times when you didn't say too much -- anything publicly, and after you've come out and started
 speaking, which, again, I congratulate the two of you that have done that today, for
 I understand the first time. So I think -- I've got to say, I think your speculations are
 a lot more informed than what our speculations might be on this. So I'd like to start with
 Captain Salas. And each of you have also said, I think, if I'm wrong on this, correct me,
 but that you've -- that you all complied, as you were asked to do and required to do,
 with the nondisclosure statements, short -- almost immediately after you described to your seniors
 in the military what you had just witnessed. Am I correct on that?
 Yes, sir. You didn't?
 See, I was involved in three sightings, three different bases, and not one time did I have
 to sign anything away. Okay, Sergeant Scott, I appreciate that clarification.
 But I'm right, for example -- let's start with Captain Salas. You signed those --
 Absolutely, sir.
 Okay, so --
 Nondisclosure statement.
 Absolutely. And I think your spec -- or your reasons that you might give this committee,
 this panel, as to both legitimate reasons why you might have been thinking over the
 years or at the time, that the Air Force might have asked you to do that, and the illegitimate
 reasons why they might have asked you to do that. There must -- you must have some idea
 on both sides of this what -- why did they make you come in and sign that right off the
 bat? I mean, and why were they then -- why were you then -- the whole culture was, don't
 talk about it, or you're going to be in trouble. What were the legitimate reasons for that,
 if there are -- if any, if any, or illegitimate reasons for that, if any?
 I think I discovered the main reason, and that is -- is this on? Okay. That the Conant
 investigation was ongoing at the time, and the idea of the Conant investigation basically
 was to give the Air Force a way out of investigating UFOs. And if they had allowed me to speak
 to the Conant investigator about my incident, and Mr. Fiegel, and Mr. Mywald, and Mr. Carlson,
 they would have discovered that this was really a serious problem. And so that, I think, was
 the primary reason they were so anxious to get us to sign these nondisclosure statements
 at the time.
 But that can also be very illegitimate, am I right? I'm talking about from the Air Force
 standpoint.
 Well, if they were honest about this, that would have been illegitimate.
 And my question is, what should they have done, and what should we start insisting the
 Air Force do?
 They should have been honest about it. They should have been straightforward about it,
 and let the people handle it. This belongs with the people. The people should decide
 something of this import, and not a small group of individuals in and out of government,
 which is what is going on right now. There is a small group of individuals, inside government
 and outside government, that are controlling this phenomenon. They're controlling the technology.
 They're controlling what's said about it. They're spreading disinformation about it.
 They are controlling the press, I think. And that's how they're keeping the ridicule factor
 going.
 Well, 1967, '66, in your experience, that's 45 years ago.
 Forty-six. Yes, sir.
 Why aren't they releasing some of these statements by now, if you know, if you have any reasons
 for it? I mean, I just want to understand this as best I can. There's no way to pry open
 a can, unless you have the right tools to pry it open with.
 If you just want my opinion, I'll be glad to.
 Yes, well, that's what I'm asking. I want to know anybody else's opinion, if you have
 one.
 I do think it's about power and greed. It is not about concern for public safety. That
 window passed a long time ago. But right now, because they have discovered so much about
 the technology and many other things regarding this phenomenon, including paranormal subjects
 like telepathic thought, things like that, which are part of this phenomenon. We didn't
 talk about it, but it is part of the phenomenon. And the abductions that are going on, another
 part of this phenomenon. This is such a complex thing, that these secrets are so powerful.
 The men controlling this, men and women that are controlling this, I think the main motivation
 is power and greed.
 Captain, Professor Markham, we're going to ask you this then. You made the comments about
 the filters, and I don't know all the technical terms, but I was quite interested. The timing
 of those filters coming on to protect nuclear installations, and that was in the '70s, you
 say?
 '74, '75.
 Well, I would ask Captain Schindell and Captain Salson, isn't it likely or not that what you
 said to them, they believed you, because they started building technologies to protect against
 the very thing you were witnessing about? Am I right on that?
 Well, sir, as Mr. Bartlett pointed out, it was well known that nuclear explosions produce
 electromagnetic pulse.
 But they don't just appear to the point where you need filters for the silos. Well, go ahead.
 Excuse me, I didn't mean to.
 There was a bench test done at Boeing on the logic coupler, and it was shown in this bench
 test that at a certain frequency of EMP injected into the logic coupler that the coupler would
 be disabled. So they had that evidence. And so there's no doubt in my mind that one reason
 they tried to protect the missiles from EMP was nuclear explosions, but the other was
 as a result of the incident that I just described to help protect against UFO disabling the
 missiles.
 Of course, they knew that.
 Well, whether or not it was successful is another question.
 Okay.
 General, would you yield for just a moment?
 Certainly.
 I just wanted to make an observation about that. We are using these bench test facilities
 several times, noted deficiencies in our ballistic missile system. And we have corrected those.
 The last time we tested and the last time that we found deficiencies and fixed them,
 we never tested. We don't know whether they're fixed or not, but neither do the Russians.
 And so there's that big question, and that's how we left it. They aren't so sure what they'll
 work. We aren't dead sure they will work, but if there's any question about whether
 they will work or not, the mad philosophy still is offered, isn't it?
 Okay. I appreciate that. And also just wanted to quickly ask, and so it's a little bit unclear
 in your mind, Captain Solace, Captain Schindel, that these filters that came in the '70s that
 were described here today, that they could have been brought forth by the Air Force because
 they were finally getting to something they felt had occurred as early as the 19--or that
 they knew about as early as the 1950s or something they might have experienced from the testimony.
 Because they've also been what you had told them, either one maybe. Or is that--
 Well, I know I'm kind of into the weeds on this a little bit, and I apologize for that,
 but I just wanted to know whether--I mean, it really struck me when I heard Captain Fenster
 talk about--Fencemaster talk about the shields and the filters, that they had to have believed
 your testimonies and what you said you saw that day. They had to know that something
 was definitely happening, and then to keep this silent for 46 years as we've talked about.
 You know, I wasn't sure about this whole truth embargo even a few days ago, but this truth
 embargo indeed needs to start coming down.
 The document that Bob Salas had released was very lengthy, really, with three sub-documents,
 and I spent a lot of time scanning it. And in fact, there was a little piece about UFOs.
 What it was was a technical explanation of all the echo sites and what happened at each
 of the sites in the first document. And there was a little piece about UFOs, and it said,
 "The rumor of any UFO creating this is disproved, just disowned." Disowned, I think, wasn't
 it?
 It was disproven.
 The rumor was disproven. Now, I don't know how you disprove a rumor.
 But at the very end document, it was a '68 document where they talked about they were
 concerned with how EMF affected it, and that Boeing was going to work on the EMF problem.
 And I think what we installed was the result of his echo and Oscar flight and not his testimony,
 because it didn't happen.
 They didn't believe him.
 Just because they said they didn't believe him doesn't mean they didn't believe him.
 Yeah, but the technical aspects, they couldn't say it didn't happen, because the flight had
 all these errors, and this is what happened.
 I think you're being very humble, Mr. Captain, and all of you, because you probably create
 a lot more technology than you believe, or that you even are willing to talk about.
 Thank you very much, Congressman.
 Congressman Bartlett, did you have another comment you'd like to make?
 Did you have another comment?
 Yes, thank you very much.
 I wanted to make a comment about the ballistic missile defense that Senator Gravell was talking
 about.
 He's correct.
 Our major ballistic missile defense is in Alaska.
 It will intercept missiles coming over the pole.
 Most of our potential enemies, the shortest route to get here is over the pole.
 In my judgment, I hope it will never be used, because the only time I think that it would
 be used is when the Russians, if they were to launch, and it would be very quickly swamped.
 They have thousands of missiles.
 If we're lucky, it would take out the first half dozen or so, and that's it.
 This system is really made to defend against countries like North Korea and Iran.
 These people may be evil.
 They are not idiots.
 They will not launch from their soil.
 I have no idea why we're waiting until they develop an intercontinental ballistic missile
 which will reach us.
 They know that we will know from where it was launched, and they know that within about
 30 minutes, they will be vaporized, the whole darn country.
 They are a huge threat, but the launch will not come from their soil.
 It will come from somewhere in the ocean.
 We have big coastlines, essentially totally unprotected, and they will not be protected.
 Even if we decide we need to protect them, they will not be protected for years, and
 that's where the real threat comes from.
 I think that the monies we have spent on our ballistic missile defense in Alaska are wasted
 monies because we cannot protect ourselves against Russia.
 In my judgment, they're the only country that would ever come over the pole, because
 if you have 100 weapons coming over, you know darn well where it came from.
 No one else has that many, so you know very well where it came from.
 It came from Russia, so they have no reason not to come over the pole.
 No one else has very many weapons, and they're not going to launch from their soil because
 they know that with our triad, with our submarines and so forth, they know within about 30 minutes,
 we would vaporize them.
 Do you think they would do that?
 That they're a huge threat, but it's from the ocean.
 It is not from their soil.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 That was rhetorical.
 Don't feel compelled.
 Let me get up.
 Sir, Centres also want to make a final comment.
 Oh, no.
 I want to follow through with that.
 Captain, you made a challenge to us to respond.
 Would you repeat that challenge?
 Well, you asked us to speculate on the reason.
 No, no.
 You were asking us something.
 Well, I asked you right back.
 What's your speculation?
 Well, here, and you're wondering whether or not we have forces in space.
 What do you think that all of these weapons are ICBMs in Alaska are about?
 Do you think they're about Korea?
 He's mentioned possibly Russia.
 They're not about Russia.
 We can, with our submarines, hold, one submarine can hold, which has got over 250 warheads,
 we can hold any, any people in the world hostage.
 Did you not notice a year ago, it's within a year, that the United States had a satellite
 and we let it come to Earth, and before it came into the atmosphere, we shot it down
 to make a demonstration that we have the capability of shooting down satellites in outer space?
 Do you recall that?
 Okay.
 Do you recall that six months later, the Chinese did the same thing to tell us tit for tat,
 you can do it, we can do it too?
 And what country, and of course, the amount of money we're spending to weaponize outer
 space is, is a supreme idiocy of the American government, because we, well, we are the most
 vulnerable.
 If you talk to any scientist, any explosion in outer space, who's got the most satellites?
 I mean, you had to wipe out our whole communication system, you had to wipe out our economy.
 We're all dependent on satellites.
 So this is the kind of, of leadership and the appropriations that go forward in this
 idiocy.
 And now, when you talk about, you get a president of the United States, when we, we, we cut
 back, what, a hundred, a hundred nukes, and Russians cut back a hundred nukes, and we're
 breaking each other's arms, patting each other on the back.
 Think of the insanity of targeting Russia and China today.
 Our banker is China.
 Russia, all they want to do is, is sell gas and oil to Europe so they can live well.
 And, and so it leaves you with the question mark, and, and this goes back to maybe the,
 and I'll end on this.
 You can be suspicious of, of what we don't know.
 But what we do know is so horrifying that you don't have any room for suspicion.
 It's a fact.
 And thank you very much for your testimony.
 I really enjoyed it.
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you.
 I want to take the prerogative of the chair, and, and just thank you all once again.
 We've had a wonderful day from bent waters to nuclear and all that you've done.
 Tomorrow promises to be the day three with Roswell and others we are anticipating.
 We have thoroughly enjoyed you as presenters, as an audience on the subject.
 I don't think we can solve it all tonight.
 You guys are light years ahead of most of us on it, but do know that you have our ear
 and that we look forward to working with you.
 Just know that your written testimony will be a come up our, part of our permanent document
 and this committee is adjourned.
