 Thank you very much.
 This meeting will come back to order.
 I am going to start out to my right with Congresswoman Woolsey, and this will be the time to ask
 questions of our witness.
 Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, witnesses.
 What a morning.
 What a morning.
 Good morning.
 What a morning.
 There is hardly any way to deny, unless you are all sitting here making up stories of
 how absolute your proof is of what's going on beyond our own earth, and so thank you
 for that.
 That was good for all of us.
 My first question is to our wonderful pilot, Santa Maria.
 You're Peru, you're Argentina.
 What I want to know is, do you have any kind of a formal relationship, your UFO group,
 with your Argentine government, and what is it, the Argentine government, and what is
 it, and how does it work, and what can we learn from that?
 Well, all the groups in Argentina, the civilian groups, create the Sephora, and Sephora had
 been unite researchers for many, many years who were my colleagues and close associates.
 Some of them were disciples of myself.
 I started searching UFOs many years ago.
 We always look for the classification from the '70s to now.
 The group found the cooperation now of the Air Force through the Minister of Defense,
 and through the executive power of the nation, we are waiting to kind of unify that motion.
 Now it's working also.
 We have a petition in the Congress of the nation, with executive power, and also with
 the Minister of Defense to have release documentations from the past.
 They were projects, as I said in my speech, and maybe the translation was not so good.
 Okay.
 Of these projects and the projects, not only to release, also to have cooperation.
 To have cooperation with the field researchers, we always work alone with no mediums to get
 to the places to do good analysis.
 We really, the groups kind of prevail so many decades with the lack of technical support
 to do analysis.
 We have, for example, since the 2000, we have the phenomenon of, for example, of the cattle
 mutilations, which is very serious.
 We know through Linda Molton, her research.
 Another example is the groups need support.
 It's not only to have the classification of documents who could give light for scientific
 analysis and to see what happened also in documents and cases.
 The Army forces and their force and the Navy research between 1960, as I explained, and
 today.
 There were recent cases too, as I said in 2011, was this big explosion.
 You need the information.
 Are they giving it to you or are you just helping them?
 Yeah.
 The classification started slowly.
 Yeah.
 But it's actually happening.
 It's happening right now.
 Yes.
 It's happening now.
 Thank you for sharing that with us.
 Thank you.
 Colonel Santa Maria, I can't imagine your experience.
 I mean, I felt like I was sitting on your shoulder when you were telling the story.
 Afterward, how did your government treat you?
 Did they take your information and take it seriously?
 How could they not?
 And did you see any life in those UFOs?
 We could not actually see into the UFO, not through the ceramic part or the metallic part.
 As regards the government and the Air Force, the 1,800 people that actually saw it and
 the commanders that were there, we reported all of this to the Air Forces, but there was
 no negative repercussions because it was officially accepted.
 The sighting was officially accepted, and I continued to fly for 20 more years without
 any problems.
 So how did your press, did the press handle this, and I mean, what was their response?
 In 1980, when this event happened, this was a year that, on that air base, we were installing
 Soviet materials or Soviet installations at that place, and the UFO did not actually get
 to fly over the base.
 And so really, we received the order to not talk about this because we didn't actually
 want any curious journalists to come and actually research and investigate this because we had
 sensitive materials on the base, and we didn't want to attract any undue attention.
 And so it was 22 years of silence until the Air Force officially gave us permission to
 talk about these phenomenon, and that's at that time when they said that we could actually
 start to speak publicly about this issue.
 And as I said, they finally gave me the authorization to talk about this.
 And did the press come back by belittling the effort, or did they acknowledge it and
 support it?
 The media started to talk about this secret that we had kept for so many years, but they
 didn't really know how to get access to the information from the Air Force offices, and
 so the media occasionally would interview me or request an interview just to try to
 get the word out about this, but it was so many years later that there wasn't a whole
 lot.
 Thank you very, very much.
 Mr. Girard.
 Yes, ma'am.
 Can I take these off?
 Yes.
 Yeah, I'll be speaking in...
 Thank you.
 Yeah.
 Thank you.
 And believe me, it's because I'm limited.
 You referred to American military in the Amazon.
 How soon did that happen, and what's the relationship there?
 The facts that I described happened in the '70s, in late '70s, in '77, and Brazil was,
 like many other countries in South America, under military dictatorship.
 And during that period of time, U.S. military and intelligence were all over South America,
 ruling lots of things there.
 Now, when Operation Saucer took place, and it happened because the populations of the
 affected area couldn't live anymore because they were seeing UFOs all the time, and worse
 than that, they were being attacked, over 1,000 people were attacked.
 During a certain period of time, there were lots of injuries made by this object that
 would come from the sky and emit a beam of light towards people's body, making them faint
 and become anemic.
 Now, the situation went so intense that the community leaders went to the governor of
 the state of Pará to ask that something is done about it.
 And the government asked the Brazilian Air Force to start an investigation to give answers
 to the population, to the society.
 Then it was established, Operation Saucer, to investigate and to engage the extraterrestrial
 intelligences because there was already, and this is in the documents, there was already
 a knowledge that there was an intelligence beyond that phenomena, and that phenomena
 was not earthly.
 Now, when Operation Saucer started as a military operation with all the military system and
 style, during its procedures that lasted four months, and the way it was closed is very
 interesting.
 But during these four months, U.S. military, U.S. intelligence were visiting those areas
 and taking part of the operations during the Operation Saucer.
 And they were talking to the witnesses during the day and sky watching the night with full
 equipment to try to detect and film the UFOs that were being seen.
 Now, it was said to me by the commander of the Operation Saucer that at the beginning,
 in the first weeks, only a few sightings took place.
 But after the Operation Saucer went on and on, the objects would come more and more boldly
 into the direction of the areas where the military were camping.
 So was the U.S. military part of that Saucer project with you?
 Not officially.
 Were they at the table?
 Not officially.
 They took part in lots of procedures, including this was told to me by the commander of the
 Operation Saucer himself, Coronel Willem Jolanda, that they were having problem in documenting
 the UFOs with photograph.
 Some UFOs were hard to photograph.
 But they solved this problem when the U.S. military came to Brazil and gave to the Brazilian
 military some equipment and highly sensitive films so they can not only photograph the
 UFOs, over 500 pictures were made, and also film the UFOs, 16 hours of film were made
 of including motherships over the Amazon River.
 So do you have any idea of whether or not that information and those films were shared
 here in the United States?
 I don't have that information.
 I truly believe that.
 Would it have been all right?
 Was there some embargo in their relationship with you that would say you can't take our
 information back?
 No, I think that the whole thing about the cooperation with the Americans is that they
 take the information back to the United States.
 They were there to collect information as they were in Argentina and Chile and so many
 countries to get information about the dust phenomena and bring back to the United States
 to use for their own purposes.
 Well, thank you very much.
 So Mr. Junios, you mentioned that the traffic control group was housed in the Air and Space
 Museum.
 Currently.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 But it started out in another...
 Yes, the Technical School of Aeronautics.
 That was the office initially.
 Well, when you told us that it had been taken from one area to another, when I heard museum,
 I got a little concerned that it was saying this is all past and you're not going to be
 working on the future.
 It's not in the museum itself, it's in the museum of the Aeronautics, it's in an old
 airport.
 It used to be the main airport, Los Cerrillos, but what happened like it happened in many
 cities is the city grew too much and also was done when the runways were smaller.
 So eventually the airport, Los Cerrillos, is no longer functioning as an airport, but they're
 still using the hangars and things and they created a museum.
 But the facilities of the committee, the CEFAA, are annexed, but it has nothing to do with
 the museum.
 So it worked for convenience, it worked for you.
 Yeah.
 All right.
 They also have an office at the main headquarters of the Civil Aviation Agency, but according
 to what General Bermudez told me, they'd rather be at that other place, he said, because when
 they are in the headquarters, if they have to make an official presentation or something,
 of course they can use that facility, he said, everybody's asking them questions.
 "Oh, what's going on with UFOs?
 Have you seen any?"
 So he said, "We're in the other place, nobody bothers them.
 They can work quietly and do their job."
 All right.
 I thank you and I thank you all.
 My time is up.
 Thank you.
 Next up we have, next up we have Ms. Kilpatrick.
 Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
 I wasn't going to start with you, Mr. Trav, but I think I will.
 I think you're the first that I've heard in four days who said the presence of the others
 actually attacked people that caused the Operation Saucer project to come into existence.
 Is that right?
 That's right.
 I don't think I've heard that before.
 Certainly haven't heard it in America.
 Matter of fact, it probably happened.
 Doesn't mean it didn't happen.
 We just haven't heard it reported like that.
 What year did Operation Saucer start?
 I'm sorry.
 What year?
 Oh, it started in September 1977.
 And how long did it end?
 And it ended on December 1977.
 It took four months only.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 And you also mentioned in this, from Congresswoman Woolsey, the U.S., did you say they took your
 information and you were waiting to hear back from them?
 Or something you were saying about, I don't know, maybe you supplied the information from
 Brazil in this instance, and then they were to report back or something.
 I don't know.
 What was your relationship with the United States of America?
 And this is for all of you all.
 The information on your presence, your UFOs, your whatever that's being called, what relationship,
 if any, did you have with the U.S. government?
 And did you forward or share any information from your country with the U.S. government?
 Me personally?
 No, Brazil.
 Oh, Brazil, of course.
 Brazil.
 All of it for your country.
 I mean, for your country.
 Yes, there is a common sense that the U.S. government is acting in many places of the
 world.
 Is what?
 Is working, operating in many places of the world collecting information about this subject.
 It is reported that the U.S. military have been to several countries collecting information
 about UFOs.
 Now, we just saw when Commander Santa Maria presented his case, a document that shows
 that U.S. intelligence was getting formed of what happened in La Jolla Air Force Base
 in Peru.
 The same thing happened in Brazil.
 In many years, we have had U.S. military coming down to Brazil and taking part of investigations
 of UFOs.
 And it's not only in the past, like four, five decades ago, but also in recent cases.
 Okay, stop.
 Okay.
 That's it.
 So, can each of you respond to that?
 We'll go right down the line.
 I just want to know what relationship, if any, does U.S. have with your experiences
 and your acts of what we're discussing this week?
 I mean, do you automatically give it to them?
 Is it because we have military bases there?
 Is it because we may get appropriations from us that you must share this?
 What reason and what is that connection?
 In the case of the CFAA, in fact, General Bermudez told me that when they created the
 office back in the late '90s, they contacted the American government, I guess through the
 embassy because they wanted to have some kind of formal relationship, but there was no response.
 They did not respond.
 What year was that?
 No.
 That would have been probably late '90s.
 But they do have an agreement with not an official group, but it's called NARCAP.
 I think it stands for National Aviation Research Center for Anomalous Phenomena.
 Located where?
 Well, it's run by a former NASA scientist, a very serious man called Dr. Richard Haynes,
 and he is an expert on aviation cases.
 He's a long-time NASA scientist, very serious.
 So he's lectured, he's gone to Chile.
 They have very close relationship because he's an expert on aviation cases and the CFAA
 is run by the Civil Aviation.
 But NARCAP is not an official agency of the U.S. government.
 That sounds like a non-profit of some sort, and we've had some testimony here to that
 effect on our U.S. side that would probably equal that.
 Correct.
 So the other thing is what my colleague Javier was mentioning.
 If you study the American declassified UFO files, which are extensive, you will see a
 tremendous amount of documents, especially back in the old days, but there's still some
 more recent collected by various agencies, usually through the Defense Attaché Office
 or sometimes by the CIA, and it's obviously that these people are monitoring the international
 aspect of UFOs.
 And do you get, does Peru get information back from the U.S. regarding any of what you
 send them?
 Well, I cannot speak for Peru.
 In the case of Chile, there might be some at the level of intelligence, they probably
 do, but then that is not revealed publicly.
 You see, what General Ben Mudez wanted was to have a formal, but because of the transparency
 law that would have had to be revealed publicly, so the U.S. just never responded.
 It's Brazil, Chile.
 Colonel Sanchez, could you respond?
 Do you share any of your information, as you testified to us this morning, with U.S. or
 any non-profit or other entity that may not be government?
 Do you share any of that with the U.S. government or a non-profit or an agency here in our country
 that would know what your gay has experienced?
 No, not with any civilian or military agency or U.S. government agency.
 There is no sharing or exchange of information.
 Thank you very much.
 Doctor, I want to say Choi, is that right?
 No.
 Well, the truth is, one of the conclusions you can draw after having heard the testimony
 of all the witnesses is that the UFO phenomenon is one of national security, and therefore
 the intelligence element is extremely important.
 As far as we understand, in Peru there is no open, formal public agreement, but there
 are indications that show that some of this information is shared with U.S. security agencies.
 There's no open public document, but there are witnesses who have noted that in the '80s,
 apparently a UFO fell in the San Mateo de Huancho area, and they said that there were
 Americans who were in that area.
 And I do want to remind you that in the Greer Disclosure Project, there were people who
 made statements, gave testimony, that stated that there was a U.S. Sergeant Jonathan Wangan
 who said that a UFO had crashed in northern Peru, and that there was extraction, and
 this was according to testimony, that they took some of the remains of this falling UFO.
 They were taken away by helicopters that were definitively not part of the Peruvian Armed
 Forces.
 Excuse me?
 They were not part of Peru, taken away in helicopters.
 What country was that who took them?
 Based on the testimony from the Steven Greer Project, apparently they were American helicopters,
 and that these materials were taken back to the United States.
 I'm going to change for Colonel Sandra Maria.
 You're a brave man to go up and down, back and forth, zip, zip, with something you don't
 know what it is, and you're trying to shoot it?
 That's pretty brave.
 I'm going to commend you for all of that.
 You did get away clean and free and healthy.
 That's a good thing, and thank you very much.
 I'm not sure I want to ask you that same question.
 I do want to go to Argentina and ask the same question.
 Do you, Argentina, share either with government or non-government organizations any of your
 experience, any of the things that you've witnessed to us today with the United States
 of America, either through its government or other non-profits or unaffiliated?
 Pretty sure.
 I am sure there's some kind of no open communication, but it's possible, but officially I don't
 see any kind of document or interaction between Argentina government and US agencies, yeah,
 officially.
 Okay.
 But, regarding we were talking, also was very interesting case.
 I researched in the decade of '70, '78, there was a UFO crash between Argentina and Bolivia,
 and supporting what Dr. Choi said was an object who produced a kind of destruction of a hill,
 was a kind of a cycle shape, a structure of no identified, and the Bolivian government
 in the study, the Argentinian was a limit, didn't investigate, but that object was retrieved
 by American's helicopters too.
 Oh, stop, stop.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 You have no relationship with them, but in that instance, and other instances around
 the table, we have been on the scene at some of your current experiences.
 Right, yeah.
 Okay.
 It goes back, I want to go back to Dr. Choi for just a moment.
 Your point was well made in terms of national security, so do you all in South America share
 your information and experiences and enhance or whatever your national security is, because
 of what you see and how closely you live together, and just one person, and you know, I don't
 know.
 There is an agreement at the level of military in our South America, they share information
 about a wide variety of subjects, of items, and the UFO is one of them, it has been confirmed
 by top ranking military in Brazil and in other countries.
 It means, and the military level, which is, it's independent than the politics that is
 a strong.
 Did you say independent of politics?
 Of politics, because presidents can come and go, but the military stay, and as they stay,
 they have to have a channel of communication among themselves, so they can talk about interests
 of each other, that applies in this country too, we just don't acknowledge it as such,
 it does.
 Presidents change, but the military industrial complex is alive and well, and continues so.
 Right, I'd like to add that.
 Just a minute, one last question, I've got one minute.
 So therefore, South America, I believe this is an international issue, and that we ought
 to go back to our congresses and others, but I also think we ought to have UN presence,
 and there's been some.
 Will your countries help the citizens hearing on disclosure go to the UN to ask for their
 help in this subject, and will your countries help petition us with that?
 Yes.
 Yes, of course.
 It's what we want.
 We would like.
 You didn't say it.
 You didn't say it.
 I want to hear it.
 Okay, that's good.
 No, no, no.
 I think that's good.
 That's what we want to hear.
 Thank you.
 Because these official agencies, they want a place where their data can be shared officially
 with other countries, because the UFO phenomenon, by definition, is global.
 Like I said, they don't care about national boundaries.
 That's our problem.
 They care about national security, though, and technology.
 So I mean, it's got to be a way to do it.
 I think a new opinion may know better, and so certainly more people in this room know
 better than I.
 Well, that is the problem, because as you know, and in Congress, I'm sure you've dealt
 with many issues dealing with intelligence and national security.
 There's all kinds of things going on under the rug, you know?
 I mean, informally, intelligence agencies, they have their own procedures, but those
 are not made public.
 Okay, stop, please.
 The United States of America knows of your instances.
 You all said that, most of you.
 They don't tell us.
 They know yours.
 And then they make mockery of us, and that doesn't exist.
 Well, because the U.S. government doesn't acknowledge.
 Okay, my time is out.
 I yield.
 I yield.
 I yield back.
 I know.
 But we've got to get to what we've got to get to.
 I want you all to know, and I commend you for all that you do and that you work together.
 But if our military gets your information and does whatever it does with it, and I hope
 to make a better world and a better global presence so that we all might live the next
 50 years, that we also work together to do that.
 I'm not so sure.
 Some work with you and some don't.
 We've got to open it up.
 We've got to address it, or there will be no universe.
 You all understand?
 Sure.
 All right.
 Thank you.
 Thank you, ma'am.
 Thank you.
 Representative Cook.
 Thank you.
 Chair, I'd like to turn to Colonel Santa Maria for a moment.
 This Department of Defense memo that's stamped in June of 1980 that was, I guess you actually
 showed this up on the screen, also is a test to your testimony, or your story, I should
 say.
 Then, of course, you testified about this.
 Is this memo referring directly to your experience that was, indeed, as someone's already said,
 very dramatic and had what we call here, and I think everywhere, the wow factor to it?
 Is this a memo that relates to, and are you prohibited from telling us, or something?
 It sounds like this happened in April.
 This is something with the June stamp on it.
 It looks like our Joint Chiefs of Staff ... Confirm, if you can.
 The Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States of America have made these comments, or at
 least received these comments, from Peru.
 We have this in writing as a document that talks about these very experiences of shooting
 at UFOs with the statement, I have to say here, that the source has been known as credible
 before in all respects.
 In other words, what you experienced was not even questioned by people, and copies of this,
 CIA, the National Security Agency, I could go on.
 Is this a smoking gun, or what, for trying to open up some files here in the United States?
 I mean ... But now I want to hear your answer, because it sounds, whether it was you or not,
 something very similar to what you said happened, it looks like in April or May, so I'm thinking
 it might be you they're talking about.
 Go ahead.
 In 2007, in this same building, I was invited to take part in a conference on the declassification
 of documents.
 There was a journalist, Edwin Cain, and there was a filmmaker, James Fox, who was making
 a documentary, and they turned over a copy of this document to me, and they said, "We
 would like to invite you to our country, because our country has accredited this encounter,"
 and so when I reviewed the data in 1980, the only encounter with a UFO was my encounter,
 and so the date of this memorandum was about 28 days later, so there were no other occurrences
 at the same base, so I believe in the sharing of information, you can see that this was
 the event being referred to.
 Well, thank you.
 And I just want everybody in this room to hear that even though, again, we have a humble
 observer that doesn't like to in any way overstate anything, that was a really strong yes to
 my question.
 It was.
 There's no other way to interpret that, and I appreciate that, and I have to say, since
 the way you described this, and the fact that you actually shot, I'm going to use the word
 bullets.
 I know that that's not the right word.
 I'm not much in knowledge of Air Force weaponry and so on, but you shot at this, and are you
 a good marksman?
 I don't know the right word to use.
 Obviously, you shot at this, and would you repeat again what happened?
 Well, these were 22 minutes of this relationship where we went up and down and went around.
 It was trying to avoid me.
 I was pursuing it, and I was trying to fire.
 When I first fired, these were bursts of 30-millimeter shells, so they're about three centimeters
 wide, 25 centimeters long, and they can destroy a truck, a single one, and there were 64,
 so it was just a barrage of fire, and nothing happened at all.
 That's what was so surprising.
 No.
 The possibility of not hitting my target, it was practically impossible.
 I've won awards for marksmanship, so I have won some shooting contests, and so they were
 like, "Hey, you're the one who needs to go up there.
 You're the one who needs to chase this thing."
 I just don't want you to be quite so humble in the way you're explaining this, please,
 because it took a little too long to say, "Hey, he wouldn't really have missed this."
 Now, he didn't say it that way.
 He said it more carefully, but there's no question you wouldn't have missed it based
 on everything you said, and based on how those 30 caliber shells, as you've described, would
 have taken out a truck.
 I mean, you didn't even have to be a great shot, but they picked you because of your
 ability to shoot at something they were worried about, coming in on the air base.
 Am I correct?
 And I want you to continue with your answer, as far as what happened after you shot the
 way you did at it.
 Well, so I shot these birds, in our training, we are always firing on a three meter by three
 meter target, and in this case, this was a 10 meter by 10 meter objective target, so
 the possibility of missing was zero.
 These hit the object, and when it started to move away, I put on my post combustion
 so that I could chase it to maneuver, to try to get in position, but it's this mental exercise
 of how am I going to do this, and when it was moving away, I thought, how is it doing
 this?
 How can I better attack it, so I tried different positions until it came to the point when
 it had supersonic speed, when it would go up, I tried to get in my sights vertically,
 but when I moved to the side of the UFO at 1.3 mach, the UFO which was stopped, it achieved
 1.2 mach in a question of seconds without any engines.
 This is something that no craft can do, to just go from 0 to 1.2 mach vertically to reach
 my same position, this is a UFO that knew the way our aircraft worked, because it was
 able to anticipate my moves and then follow me, and then once I landed, I met with intelligence
 officers, and we looked at all catalogs to see what possible spy objects this might have
 been, but they all had some type of engine, there was nothing similar to what I had observed.
 So this was an unidentified object, and we were unaware of any type of technology on
 earth that existed.
 Will you allow me to make a comment?
 Please Mr. Troy, I'd like to hear Dr. Troy's, since you're from Peru of course.
 Thank you very much, perhaps because the commander is so humble, he has not expressed certain
 details, but I wanted to share something that I believe that you should know and I should
 underscore.
 I would ask the, if I could interrupt you for one moment, I would ask the colonel to
 nod his head yes on any detail where I'm, either yes or no, just to be sure that he's,
 because I agree, one of the problems is you have a, not a problem in my opinion, but you
 have somebody that does not like to in any way bring attention to himself or overstate
 his own abilities or what he did when he, just description, denied by our Joint Chiefs
 of Staff was amazing.
 I just want him to confirm what you say because I do want to believe that it would be useful
 this panel to have him acknowledge anything you say that wouldn't add to that.
 One of the things that we have heard in previous days is the possibility that many of these
 UFO events are due to earthly craft, but in the case of Colonel Santa Maria, we can prove
 that this was not anything, any technology we see here on earth.
 In the military terminology, there was a wall of fire basically that he came up, that this
 object came up against.
 There's nothing on earth that could defend itself against that specifically in that time,
 not even up to today, not because it was able to only defend itself, but as the colonel
 stated, well you asked him what was the impact that it had on that, it actually, there was
 no impact.
 It absorbed all of these rounds.
 It actually absorbed it.
 That is absolutely impossible for any earth or any technology that we have here on earth
 to be able to absorb that type of barrage.
 If I could interrupt you for just a moment and say, do you agree with the two or three
 important points there that Dr. Troy just made?
 Yes, I do agree because over time we have talked about the possible situations and the
 different perspectives that exist.
 Obviously I fired, and there should have been some sort of impact, but there was nothing.
 There was no, the bullets didn't even explode.
 There was no explosion of the barrage of what I was firing, so it just absorbed it.
 Okay, thank you very much, and I'd love to continue with this, but I do need to ask another
 question here with just a minute on my time left.
 We have one minute left.
 That's right.
 That's what I said.
 I'd like to go over here to Mr., excuse me, Colonel Sanchez.
 Your system in Uruguay that apparently has been in existence for 33 years, you say, that
 it's a track, and keep track of anything that's cited, it's called, I can't remember the operation
 name of it, or the, excuse me, let me grab my notes, I'm so mesmerized by the previous
 testimony, but the system you have where you outline the five or six steps to even get
 qualified to be seriously looked at, and then tracked as far as any UFO sightings that your
 organization in Uruguay keeps track of, do you have records of things similar to what
 we've just been talking about with Colonel Santa Maria, and I'm not sure if Peru and
 Europe, they do have the same language, don't they, or you obviously heard everything anyway,
 but through these translations, so I'd like to know anything that might be in that, that
 kind of talks about this sort of thing, and since I'll be out of time, if you keep your
 answer somewhat short, but. Yes, we for the last 33 years have had an Air Force commission
 that also is accountable to the public on all issues dealing with UFOs. This commission
 also has military and civilian members, and also does have archives of 1300 cases that
 had been investigated, 3% of which, there are 39 or 40 cases now that have not been
 solved because of the level of bizarreness that they presented, and Uruguay has scientifically
 addressed the UFO issue and does not rule out the extraterrestrial element, but for
 this we do need scientific evidence. We do have cases, such as that which Colonel Santa
 Maria mentioned, and how fighter jets were scrambled to chase these objects, and how
 there was a chase, an in-air chase, and following glowing objects, and sometimes they would
 get close to, and how these objects would get close to air bases throughout Latin America.
 Thank you. A wise course, by the way. Thank you. Trust but verify. Senator. Thank you.
 I'd like to start with our colleague from Brazil. Yes, sir. You mentioned that the government
 responded from an investigatory point of view to the apparent violent attacks that took
 place in the Amazon area, killing people. Now, that's the first, at least that I am
 aware of anywhere in the world, where an aggressive attack resulting in loss of life that was
 the product of a flying saucer, extraterrestrial effort. Could you elaborate a little bit more
 specifically on the investigation that was made over the death of these people? Yes.
 We don't know for what reason that took place, but that happened. During two or three years,
 like 1976, '77, '78, we had casualties, at least four casualties, and we have a record
 of 400 people attacked. Not only people, but also animals were attacked by these beams
 of light that would come from these balls, these spaceships. Sometimes they were referred
 to like a can with a windshield and two persons, two human-like creatures inside of it operating
 that spaceship. This has been described in detail by lots of people who live in the area
 of Salgado, especially in the island of Colares, which is 60 or 70 miles from the city of Belém.
 This has also been reported by the military. Now, the very interesting thing about it is
 that when the military decided to camp there and to conduct their investigations, the attacks
 stopped. Very rare attacks took place in other areas, but not where the military were. Also,
 when the military decided to change their camping from one point of the island to another
 point of the island, the objects that would be hovering, that previous point where the
 operations were taking place, would move to the other area, like in the own words of the
 commander of the Operation Saucer, Jorge Yolanda, like if these intelligences knew what the
 military were doing in that area. That's very amazing. These are only 440 pages of a total
 of 2,000 pages that were produced as a result of the Operation Saucer. I would like to address
 this to you. I would like that you have time to examine this because this contained very
 hard information collected in a military fashion by military men on duty investigating UFOs
 in a confidential, not top secret, but confidential, sometimes reserved operation by the Brazilian
 Air Force and the Amazon.
 Has the military who have been in charge of this investigation, have they been transparent
 with the public in Brazil?
 As I told before, on that day, we are under military dictatorship, so there wasn't much
 transparency.
 Presently, after the dictatorship left?
 Yes. The gentleman that conducted the Operation Saucer, the commander of it, was a captain
 at that time, and he retired as a coronel. And 20 years after the Operation Saucer was
 shut down, this man called me and invited me to his place, to his house in Rio de Janeiro
 where he was living. And I spent two days with him, interviewing him extensively where
 he gave me full details of everything that happened during those four months. And he
 also described me how he and his men had a close encounter with the creatures that came
 in those objects. And that actually, this main encounter with an alien creature that
 took place in mid-December, 1977, was what caused the Operation Saucer to be shut down.
 And in my reading of it is because the Brazilian military wouldn't know what to do if this
 context, open context among military and extraterrestrial start being regular in the Amazon, what we
 can do now. So then the Operation Saucer was shut down. But just to add a few more pieces
 of information that it was only asked to say shut down to make pretend, because the Operation
 Saucer then became, in a second level, much more secret and was conducted for several
 more months under military, US military command in Brazilian territory.
 Well, I think you partially answered the next question was that was there a US presence
 interfacing with your military in the investigation of these UFOs?
 Yes, sir.
 You have documentary evidence of that?
 I have the reports given to me by the commander of the Operation Saucer that he interacted
 many, many times with Brazilian intelligence agents members and US intelligence.
 Which would be the CIA.
 That will be the CIA and also military. They will be all over the Amazon looking for the
 same kind of information that we are looking for, about who are those intelligences that
 pilot those machines.
 Do you not find that somewhat bizarre that our government now officially says that there's
 no investigation that we were involved with, no documentation?
 I would say that is more than bizarre.
 Okay. Let me move on to my question.
 Even our government is admitting in the farthest end that there has been official investigation.
 Now we started in Brazil in 2004 a movement, a campaign called UFOs Freedom of Information
 Now to request to the government to open its files and we have succeeded.
 It's the only model like this in this planet where the society have asked its government
 to come clear about it and it came. At least partially because we have got from 2008 to
 2010 not only 4,500 pages of UFO document but also like 300 to 400 pictures of UFOs.
 This is all given to the society. This has all been put in the National Archives. Anybody
 can go to the National Archives in Brasilia or in Rio and see this.
 Was there panic in the streets when this was revealed?
 Not at all. Not for a single minute.
 So the people were mature enough to accept this knowledge?
 Absolutely.
 Let me go to my friend from Chile. Do you have any knowledge of American military presence
 or intelligence presence interfacing with the officials in Chile gathering information
 on UFOs?
 Not really except if you look historically some of the FOIA documents released by the
 CIA. Usually it was the Defense Attaché Office that if it was a very important case they
 would send those guys to collect the information. Historically in some of the release files
 there are occasionally some documents about Chile but not recently. I have not seen it.
 Like I said General Bermudez the head of the committee actually wanted to have a relationship
 but he wanted to be open and official.
 We didn't want that.
 That says a lot. With respect and you've drafted or you've worked with Danny Sheehan in drafting
 a resolution that can come from this body trying to refer this matter to the General
 Assembly of the United States.
 Yeah because it has to be a mechanism like I said on the first day in this hearing.
 Could you circulate that document as soon as possible to the members so we can begin
 to digest it?
 Okay although we have really not this is a kind of thing that we need to discuss.
 I realize it's a draft. We're all very sophisticated in dealing with drafts and first writings
 but we can massage something as long as we have something in our hands.
 Okay.
 Now to my colleague from Uruguay. Did I understand you correctly that your system of investigation
 has been transparent and open to the public from the very beginning? Did I understand
 that properly?
 Yes, that's correct. In fact Uruguay has published through this commission a book that I brought
 here to show you with more than 20 cases of Uruguay, official cases written by the first
 president of this group, Colonel Eduardo Aguirre, who wrote this book 11 years ago. It was published
 publicly so that the public could follow all of the ufological activity in Uruguay. There
 are also press conferences and the information is even taken to the schools to talk to them
 about this and even educate them on this issue. This commission is made up by both civil and
 military members. It has a work methodology that was adopted in 1979 and this methodology
 was also shared with China.
 You just said that this was brought to the schools so it could be educated to the young
 people of your country. Is that correct?
 Yes, that's correct. The UFO issue is something that everybody likes to hear about, especially
 young people, at least in Uruguay. And they request that the Air Force go and give talks
 to the kids, and they go to many different places.
 When the U.S. helicopter retrieves the materials from the downed UFO aircraft, was there no
 reaction to a violation of your sovereignty by the United States of America or do you
 just accept these kind of violations as a matter of course?
 Actually, this information, well we just recently learned about this based on the disclosure
 project that Stephen Greer carried out based on the testimony that a military official,
 Richard Winga, provided. This was circulated in the UFO groups in Peru. It never made it
 to the press in Peru. And the press is the same here as it is in Peru. They don't really
 talk about it. And so the media generally try to cover up any type of thing like this.
 So the government doesn't really give importance to this, and they say, well we're just going
 to keep it in the corner here, and they're just going to say that there wasn't a real
 invasion of sovereignty.
 You should take a page from the Uruguayan approach to the issue. Colonel Santa Maria,
 who gave the order to shoot? Was that your own initiative or did it come from higher
 headquarters as you were selected and taking off?
 The order was to intercept and destroy. Because this is something that could invade our airspace.
 That's right. That answers my question. Thank you. I think my time is expired, so I can't
 get to Argentina. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. And with that, we will go to Representative Bartlett.
 Thank you very much. First, I want to apologize for my tardiness. This is National Day of
 Prayer in the United States. And for a long time, I had been scheduled to be the main
 speaker at a countywide National Day of Prayer breakfast this morning. And so I fulfilled
 that obligation and came here so soon as I could. We have your testimony then. Thank
 you all very, very much.
 While our military and our government is saying that there's no such thing as a possibility
 of a UFO coming from another world, they of course admit that there are UFOs. UFO simply
 means unidentified flying object. And the Air Force says that in their Project Blue
 Book there were 701 of them that they couldn't wish away some way or another. So they do
 admit they're unidentified flying objects. They simply are denying categorically, I think,
 that they could be of extraterrestrial origin. But while they seem to poo-poo the whole thing
 here and relegate it to the ha-ha corner, they apparently are aggressive in participating
 in investigations of USO sightings in South America. And I'd just like to start here
 with Mr. Gavard and go down the table and have you tell each of us briefly, is this
 true in your country and to what extent?
 Yes, it is. Actually, I'd like to take this opportunity to speak about crashes. It has
 been said here in this table and during the preceding years and days that crashes of UFOs
 have happened, most of them in old days. But there is at least one recent crash and it
 took place in Brazil in 1996. It is called the Virginia case in which an alien spacecraft
 crashed and at least two creatures were captured and offered no resistance to its capture.
 But they died right after they were captured. And this procedure were taken of rescuing
 the debris of the UFO and capturing the creatures were taken both by the fire department of
 the city of Virginia with the army personnel of a nearby headquarter. And in the next day,
 the following day of the capture, we already knew that US intelligence and US military
 as well as US doctors were sent by the US consulate in Sao Paulo to the city of Virginia
 to follow the procedures. The doctors were sent, medical doctors from United States,
 to follow what was being done about the creatures because they died and nobody could explain
 how were their morphology, how they function. And we know for a fact because this is a very
 well-documented case that has been investigated by at least 70 UFO researchers, including
 first UFO researchers from United States as Dr. Roger Lear, Dr. James Hurtuk, and the
 deceased Dr. John Mack from Harvard University. They have been to Brazil, they confirmed what
 the UFO researchers from Brazil discovered. And we know for a fact that at least one of
 those two creatures were taken to United States by US military. And it was taken in one of
 the Buffalo airplanes to serve the US embassies and consulates in South America. When it came
 back to United States, it brought back to here one of the creatures and part of the
 object that were rescued, that were retrieved by the Brazilian military.
 Yes. Well, in Chile, I don't have really much information about the other than what
 I said earlier, that there were some documents from the CIA, but they tend to be old. But
 I do want to bring up a case that was mentioned by my colleague, Johnetti, which happened
 in Bolivia. And we don't have anybody from Bolivia here, so I'll speak briefly about
 that case because I'm familiar with. And it's a crash too that took place in Tarija, which
 is on the border of Bolivia and Argentina in May of 1978. In this case, we do have some
 documents, not Majestic 12 type documents, which are controversial, but these are officially
 released documents under the Freedom of Information Act, including a telex from Secretary of State
 Cyrus Vance at the time. And also Air Force officers from the Defense Attaché Office
 under a project that was called Project Moon Dust, which is well established that existed,
 which was for the recovery of space objects. I mean, that's how they started. As soon as
 the space age took off in 1957, then the Air Force created this project, Moon Dust, for
 the recovery of space debris. But according to one document, they list space debris, and
 in those days only two countries had space projects. That was the United States and the
 Soviet Union. And then it says unidentified flying objects in the same document. So when
 this incident happened, two officers from the Defense Attaché Office, which were stationed
 in La Paz, the capital of Bolivia, somehow showed up in this remote area. And unfortunately
 for them, as they were coming in the airport, they were photographed by a local reporter.
 And the picture, you can see them, they're trying to hide their faces, but there they
 were. They were photographed, and the picture was published in the press. So the cover story
 is that they were on vacation. But that's not a type of city you go on vacation, number
 one. They were not with their wives. So obviously that was a cover story and a pretty bad one.
 Nevertheless, this was in a very remote area. We only have probably a very partial file
 from the US. There's only a few documents. I'm sure there's plenty more. Where the case
 gets a little murky is as to whether something was really retrieved and taken back to the
 US, or it may still be there, because it was in an extremely remote area, and there had
 been like a landslide on a mountain. There was an expedition initially by the army, by
 the Bolivian army, under a lieutenant, and they finally got to the area, but they didn't
 have the equipment and the facilities to do something. And there are some rumors that
 something was retrieved and taken to the United States, but then according to an American
 reporter who did investigate this case, whose name was Bob Pratt, he's now deceased, he
 thinks that they never did retrieve, because it was such a remote area, so that object
 might still be there. But again, it shows that there is an interest on the part of the
 United States, and we have uncovered some documents, but there's probably much more.
 Thank you. Colonel Sanchez.
 In the Uruguayan case, as regards to UFO investigation, there is no official exchange with the United
 States. The only exchanges that we have had with the United States have been the recovery
 in 2011 of a star engine, Delta II, which fell over our airspace. I personally went
 to recover that object. But as regards to UFO issues, we have no exchange agreement
 with them, nor have we carried out any official exchange with them.
 Dr. Troy. In the case of my country, I understand that
 this takes place at two levels. The public level, in which the Air Force Office is in
 charge of this, and through the public relations. But I understand that at another level, there
 is an official exchange of information. And this is a constant exchange of information
 we can see, because afterwards, we can see the information does make it to the United
 States when there are UFO crashes. For example, in the case that we mentioned before, the
 San Mato de Huancho in 1980, unfortunately, there are no official documents. Everything
 is at a secret level, but we have received many testimonies on exchange of information.
 President Maria. Comments, please, on any participation of
 our either intelligence or military, any other part of our government, in investigations
 of UFOs in your country. I'm not aware of any official U.S. involvement
 on the UFO issue, but we do know that in the intelligence exchange, there is an exchange
 of information between the intelligence agencies. Anytime there's a new event, there is an exchange
 of information to update the intelligence communities on these issues.
 Mr. Gimini. Yes, regarding as I explained to the senator,
 in matter of ufology on research, I'm not aware of any documentation exchange between
 Argentina and United States. But regarding to other agencies, as NASA, well, NASA has
 in several cases of Argentina is a place where there's a lot of space junk. There's a lot
 of debris satellites coming from international, also other countries. And I researched many
 cases where many debris is coming, but different kind of procedures.
 And in the case of NASA, yes, they asked for particular cases if they were part of American
 missions. And there was a few cases of retrieval, yes. But we were talking about only space
 debris. Oh, thank you. It's very interesting that
 there's apparently a different attitude on their part if it's outside this country. The
 inner country is total denial. But if they really believe that, then they wouldn't be
 participating in these investigations in South America.
 Mr. Gimini, you mentioned that Operation Saucer was shut down. Is that simply because it then
 went underground, then went secret? They continued the investigation, but secret now?
 The main reason why the Operation Saucer was shut down was because there was an actual
 contact among the military, William Jolanda, the captain that was commanding the Operation
 Saucer, and an extraterrestrial creature. It took place on mid-December 1977. And as
 part of his duties, the commander of the Operation Saucer has to go back to his commander, a
 brigadier in the city of Belen, and report weekly what was going on during the Operation
 Saucer. And when he did that that week, then when he informed to his superior that he had
 an actual encounter with a creature, two arms, two legs, a body, a head, with a helmet that
 came from a UFO, 300 feet long, that almost landed close to the Guajará-Mirim River.
 When we reported that to the brigadier, Protasso de Oliveira, his commander, then William Jolanda
 was given order to shut down Operation Saucer and return all material and bring all his
 men from the jungle to the city and give it all the material, all the information.
 Then we realized, we knew, I've been seeking information about it for quite 20, 20-some
 years. I have gathered lots of information about it in my, in my pursuit for the details
 of this, that the Operation Saucer changed its name, changed its personnel. All the three
 dozen men that were commanded by William Jolanda were taken off the scene, and the new personnel
 took the operation under a different name and under U.S. military command from several
 months after December 1977.
 Oh, thank you. One quick question to Colonel Santa Maria. What would be the-
 You have less than one minute.
 Less than one minute. I saw that. Thank you. I saw that. What would be the arguments for
 and against the suggestion that what you were dealing with was kind of like a giant hologram
 rather than something physical? Your bullets had no effect on it. I'm just asking, you
 know, if that was the argument, that could it have been a kind of a giant hologram, what
 would be the arguments for that? What would be the arguments against that?
 Well, it would be difficult for it to be a hologram because I saw it from different angles,
 and when it moved, a hologram could change, it could change shape, but the colors were
 very solid. It was a real object. This was not a hologram.
 It was an object that we can't understand if, in fact, there was no effect of bullets
 on it. I'm just curious. We're dealing with a phenomenon here that we cannot explain in
 terms of our physics and so forth here. I'm just wondering what the various options are.
 Thank you all very much. Or if we can have a second round to answer additional questions.
 We will probably have a very short round. Okay, thank you. Yes. One question per person,
 however. Thank you very much for being here today. Great testimony.
 Thank you. I would like to hear from each one of you.
 What's the attitude here? It is, well, if you believe in unidentified fine objects or
 you believe that there's spacecraft that comes in, there's been such a damper by both the
 press and our government about believing this. I mean, you're sort of made fun of if you
 look at this and say, "Yes, this is real." What's the attitude of both the people and
 your press? We'll start with Mr. Jordan. Thank you. This is definitely not a matter
 of belief. There is a lot of data that has been produced by civilian UFO researchers,
 military UFO researchers, very few but very dedicated scientists for the last 60 years
 to confirm without any question at all that we are being visited by several species of
 more advanced, at least technologically, more advanced civilization that come here.
 And there's objects that they design, they construct like a Boeing does. It's Boeing.
 It's airplanes here. They must have something like that in their planets. And they visit
 other planets in the universe. It is as simple as thinking what we are doing presently. We
 are at this very moment on Mars, on moon, taking photo of satellites, of Uranus, of
 the rings of Jupiter, of whatever. We are exploring our backyard. The difference is
 that our technology presently only allows us to explore this backyard. But if we're
 doing this now in 2013, in 20 years, in 30 years, in 50 years perhaps, we will be able
 to do interplanetary trips with crews inside our spaceships safely, effectively, go and
 come back. So if we can do this in the near future, and we're working on that definitely,
 this advanced civilization that started the evolutionary process much before us, they
 are doing the same. And they may have been doing the same for quite some time, perhaps
 hundreds of years, thousands of years. We don't know. The universe is so full of life.
 And the variety of this life in the formats and the levels of evolutionary process, it's
 just unthinkable for us at this point. But we are grasping the surface of this. We are
 doing history here. We are doing what we are supposed to do, to question and to whatever
 we find out, take to the society, make the society know that we are being visited. Because
 we may very well, at any point, receive their visitation in an open and frank way. And the
 world has to be prepared for that. It's not out of question that one day we will change,
 exchange with them, we'll engage, we'll live with other societies from other planets.
 It's just a matter of time. Thank you.
 Antonio? Yes. You're asking about the social attitude
 of the public and the press in Latin America. I would say, in general, it is much more open
 than in the United States. Whenever there is an important UFO case, it gets covered
 in mainstream newspapers. So it would be like here being covered by the Washington Post,
 by the New York Times, but seriously, or at least semi-seriously. There is some ridicule,
 of course, but not as bad as the US. The scientific community, on the other hand, has been very
 conservative, generally speaking, in Latin America. I would say that there might be more
 scientists quietly doing research in the US than in Latin America. Although that is changing.
 Now that they see these official commissions, then that gives them some cover. If some general
 that is attached to the Civil Aviation Agency asks professors from the universities, then
 that gives them cover. But in the past, it was curious to see that the press and the
 general public and the governments were more open, but the scientific community was more
 closed. Interesting.
 They were just afraid, maybe, because the peer pressure is always bad. In one thing
 that General Ben Mudez told me, which I found it very interesting, is that he said the pilots,
 the airline pilots, were very cautious. Normally, because in the past, airline pilots, they
 never wanted to report UFOs publicly, because it may affect their career. They don't want
 to be known as the UFO nut. So he said they're trying to condition them that it's okay.
 After all, this committee is from the Civil Aviation, and these are official forms. But
 he said it's easier for them from the military pilots, because if their commander tells a
 military pilot, "Here's a report, you fill the form," then officers follow orders, right?
 But the airline pilots is still volunteer. But the fact that this agency is with the
 Civil Aviation, that is also changing. And of course, because they are with the Civil
 Aviation, that's their primary source of information. It usually comes from pilots who are, in the
 course of their flying, they're seeing something. They don't know if that is another air traffic
 or something else. So they will call the control tower, says, "Well, I see an object in that
 corner. Do you have any air traffic?" And then usually the control tower, well, in some cases
 they probably do, and then that's filed away, and it's not a UFO case. But in other cases,
 they don't. So then the control tower says, "No, we have no scheduled traffic there."
 And these communications are recorded and preserved. In the old days, probably they
 were erased after a while, but now they're preserved. And then there's official reporting
 forms that the committee gives them. But it is still up to airline pilots, that part is
 still volunteer, whether they want to fill the report or not. So they have to be conditioned.
 Right. But they're being conditioned by the government. So hopefully that will change.
 Colonel Sanchez? Well, I wanted to tell you that the Uruguayan
 Air Force does not rule out the hypothesis that these are extraterrestrials. This phenomenon
 is one that we've seen occur in Uruguayan airspace. It could be different probes, something
 else, but we need scientific evidence to prove it. That's why our commission works using
 scientific methodologies, but we do so through the Air Force. I believe that people's attitude
 and the media's attitude in Uruguay are very respectful, given the fact that for 33 years,
 the Air Force has been spearheading UFO investigations in Uruguay. And so I believe that the Uruguayan
 people have reliable and transparent official information and understand that. The situation
 in each country is different. In the case of Brazil, United States, these are massive
 countries with large tracts of land and very sophisticated defense systems. It's not the
 same in Uruguay. Uruguay doesn't develop weapons. We don't have special aeronautic or space
 research. So I think that's why there's greater acceptance. However, in the case of the United
 States, it's something that we all know. Defense is very important, and so they have to keep
 some secrets when it comes to sharing information. I've heard people mention over these days
 that these UFOs could be a new prototype of an unmanned aircraft, and that might make
 things difficult for the Department of Defense or especially for companies that build these,
 you know, Lockheed or Boeing. And that's why I believe that there are greater reservations,
 and I think that that's natural in terms of sharing information in terms of what's been
 flying around out there. That's at least my personal opinion.
 Thank you very much. Yes. Yes, you were talking about believing or not in UFOs. I support
 what our colleague from Brazil said. It's not a matter of belief. It's a matter of information.
 The information is out there, and over these five days we've been talking about it very
 openly. However, and I'm struck by how this is addressed in the United States. They underscore
 the fact that these civilizations are potentially aggressive, you know, the nuclear aspects
 of this. That's very interesting, because we don't look at it that way. It seems like
 there might be politically correct extraterrestrials, you know, because they might be offensive
 in some way. But in Peru, when we hear about cases of encounters, we have very credible
 testimony of people who've had contact in many different cases. But it's always been
 with civilizations where there have been attempts made at engaging and having communication.
 If you look at the case of Santa Maria, where there was this "clash" and where all of the
 ammo was fired, you would expect a response from the others. But there was none. It seemed
 like it was like a cat and mouse game. And if they wanted to destroy it, they would,
 clearly with their technology, they would have been able to do that, and they haven't
 done it. So I think our approach is very different. It's not, we look at superior technology,
 not in military framework, but there are many visits that we are receiving. We have to look
 at it. Unfortunately, this is, we haven't been able to explain it scientifically yet.
 Thank you very much for your comments. Colonel?
 Yes. Just with respect for how the media treats us when there's a UFO case, I've worked
 with many airlines and crews. And I would say that starting in the 90s, pilots talk
 very openly about experiences that they've had, what they've seen, what they've heard.
 Because again, nobody makes fun of you or laughs at you. It's very normal now to talk
 about sightings, and that doesn't have any impact whatsoever on someone's career. And
 I'm very pleased that that's the case. In my experience with Argentina, I have three
 decades as a journalist, international, and I saw evolution. When I started, the media
 was more kind of, kind of, aseptic. It was hard to be interviewed. It was hard to kind
 of open this Pandora box of the subject. But I saw, all over the world, I've seen this
 changing. For example, with series of history channel, ancient aliens, or UFO hunters, the
 people is kind of totally more open. Today, for example, we are discovering planets similar
 to the Earth every day in the news. It's incredible how the astronomy and the exobiology is every
 day in your breakfast table in the newspaper. And that attitude also helped with the UFOs
 too. And for example, regarding with the pilots, it's interesting how the Latin American pilots
 are so open. Every time I travel, I go to the cockpit to talk with the pilots, and the
 pilots have experiences different to the United States, who the pilots are more shy. And I
 say, "What happened? We have only activities out of the border and not here?" It's interesting.
 See, and sometimes I feel ridiculous asking, but I always go also to the airline I travel
 in, United American Airlines. I say, "No, they don't talk too much." But I think it's
 a totally paradigm shift. It's a shift now in all levels of consciousness. And I think
 it's positive for the new generations. When I was growing up as a ufologist, yeah, my
 own family was kind of, "Oh, he liked these subjects." And they were not kind of accepting
 that, also the media. But I think it's totally a new hope for all of us.
 Thank you very much. I think we have time for one question from each panel member, if
 you have one.
 I have a question, and Dr. Choi was absolutely my straight man on this one. My question is
 to you, Colonel Santa Maria. There was a phenomena in the surprise that the object, the UFO did
 not, was not attacking back. And would you respond to that?
 Yes, it was a peaceful attitude. When I began to attack it, it evaded the fire. But never
 did I feel a threat that it was going to respond by attacking me. It's simply when my fuel,
 it was out, I just approached it and saw that it was an object that was unknown to me. I
 just wanted to see what it was. And I had to turn my back to return to the base. I thought,
 I don't know, maybe it's going to start chasing me now. But nothing of the sort happened.
 Thank you. Representative Kilpatrick. Thank you, Madam Chair. To Colonel Sanchez and Dr.
 Choi, what kind of scientific information do you seek that would verify the phenomena?
 Well, we, in theory, have no idea what it is we're actually investigating. So we use
 scientific methods to conduct our investigations. I can say that in 1993 we saw two luminous
 spheres hovering over a field in the interior part of Uruguay, these luminous spheres that
 measured about 30 or 40 centimeters, no more than that. They left prints where scientifically
 through laboratory studies we saw a diminishment of phosphorus and zinc and magnesium. So samples
 were taken from where it had touched the soil. We saw there were eight different tracks there.
 And again, there was a reduction in phosphorus, zinc, and magnesium. We continue to use scientific
 methods to investigate in an attempt to see if this was reminiscent of any type of other
 interaction we've seen because of the color, the energy. But we don't know because we don't
 have anything else to analyze. However, we continue to work on projects that have been
 underway for several years. We're working with Norway in an analysis of lights that
 have been seen hovering over Uruguay, over dams, in mountainous areas of rivers where
 there have been witnesses. We have photographs. We're trying to conduct a film and photographic
 analysis. And again, we're also working with Chile on this. We have a written agreement
 between the Uruguayan and the Chilean Air Force in the sharing of information and data.
 And Uruguay and Chile have a joint investigation on UFOs on Easter Island.
 In my particular case, when I was working with the Peruvian Air Force, I was cooperating
 with them in their UFO office. The focus was on serious formal scientific investigations.
 We were given questionnaires that showed us how we were supposed to interview people.
 Then we had to cross this information with weather, data, et cetera. But this morning
 I was talking about the Chulucan incident. We saw these spheres of light that moved intelligently
 because they interacted with the people. When people tried to approach, they saw the spheres
 approaching then going back to where they were. And so it defied conventional science.
 And we sought explanations. We investigated for three years. And so the only way of understanding
 this phenomenon, again, is escaped traditional scientific cannons, that it was possible that
 we had to look for new possibilities. And in a conference, I was saying that if it's
 73 million light years away, how do you continue to analyze it? And in 2010, there was a home
 in Lima, the capital of Peru, where there was a phenomenon where things started flying,
 floating around, things exploded. And there was a cell phone from the house owner. It
 was found in another house. And 25 people saw how that particular cell phone disappeared
 from one house and appeared in another house. And it wasn't that it flew from one place.
 It disappeared from point A and reappeared in point B. This is something like teleporting
 from science fiction. But it had witnesses. People call this paranormal phenomenon, which
 is almost like a cuss word in sciences. But we have to look at ways to try to understand
 these phenomenon.
 Thank you. Representative Cook? Yes. Colonel Santamaria, I'd like to ask you, so that we
 can do due diligence on any possible other explanation or hologram explanation, for example,
 could you tell us what your Air Squad commander ordered you to do that day? How many people
 on the ground witnessed the globe, as you described it initially, as about 600 meters
 above the earth, at about five kilometers away from the base, and particularly interested
 in how long at speeds that you described as 1.6, up to 1.6 Mach speed, you did this, you
 kept this globe in your sights.
 When this balloon observed, there were 1,800 people who were in our morning formations.
 And so they visually saw this globe. Radar had not detected it. And I was ready to fly.
 And so I got the order that there's an object that's not responding to radio communications.
 It's not on the radar. We thought it might be spy equipment, and it was in restricted
 airspace for civilian flights. So I was given the order. This could be a spy object. And
 so I was given the order to pursue it. And so if it did not move away, I was supposed
 to engage it with fire. So 1,800 people witnessed it. But 400 people were in combat positions
 that if it started to attack, that they would intervene. So as I fired and it moved away
 from the base, the other 400 kept their position. They remained on standby. And they saw that
 it moved up in the air, and the object moved away. So I chased it. I think it was 1,800
 people who saw this very clearly.
 Thank you.
 Senator.
 I have no further questions. I just want to congratulate the panel coming forward, because
 you've added a very unusual dimension to what we've been trying to prove. And that is that
 our government has not been straightforward with the American people. So thank you for
 helping us prove that case.
 Representative Bartlett.
 Our chair has asked two-thirds of the question that I was anxious to ask. And the question
 I was going to ask was, would you tell us, just go down the line and tell us, the attitudes
 of your people, your press, and your military and government? And you've asked the question
 about the people and the press.
 So let me just ask the question. I want just a one-word answer from you. Where your military
 and your government is on a scale of 1 to 10, where 1 is open and accepting and investigative,
 and 10 is denial and ridicule. Our country is pretty close to 10. Tell us on that scale
 where your countries are. Just a number.
 Just a number. Being 0 total openness and 10 total ridicule.
 Yeah, 1 or 0 total openness, right. Yeah.
 I would say we are 3.
 3? Pretty good.
 2, 3.
 OK.
 After this, the Iguachu forged the Iguachu letter and the recent meeting at the Ministry
 of Defense in Brazil two weeks ago, only two weeks ago, maybe we can go an update, an upgrade
 to 1.
 That's fantastic.
 I don't know.
 Well, I think that we have to distinguish between the recognition that the UFO phenomenon
 is real and the extraterrestrial hypothesis, because that's another step. So in the terms
 of the acceptance of UFOs as a real phenomenon, I mean, we have this statement from General
 Bermudez. Another important ufologist in Chile from the Army is Major Bravo, who was with
 the aviation branch of the Army. That would be a 0, a 1. They totally recognize that the
 UFO phenomenon is real. But the extraterrestrial hypothesis, that's another question, because
 then you would have to have a body or a piece of metal or something that really could be
 proven. So there, I don't know, they admit the possibility, but there I would say maybe
 a 6 or 7 as far as the ET part. But the UFO, total acceptance that it's a real phenomenon
 and that it may pose possibly a threat to aviation. And that is something that governments
 should take seriously. Absolutely. In South America, that is accepted today.
 The vision of Uruguay from the point of view of the Uruguayan Air Force is people, I would
 say, 0. Because Uruguay, through its Air Force and UFO Investigation Commission, even welcomed
 the idea of extraterrestrials as a possibility. However, there are 40 cases, again, that we've
 been unable to resolve because of how odd they are. And you have civilian pilots, military
 pilots that have chased these UFOs and have taken photographs. So I would say the openness
 in Uruguay means that people have a good image of what the information we're providing is.
 They believe it's reliable. And again, we use scientific methods because there's no
 other way to do it from our point of view. And the groups that address UFOs, like spiritual
 groups, that are also working in investigating this accept what we are proposing. And we've
 even held a conference in 2012 where we invited all of the groups in Uruguay that do these
 investigations. I think people were very happy, and I think there was acceptance. Thank you
 very much.
 Thank you, Congressman. Before giving my response, I would like to clearly state that I profoundly
 love my country, Peru, and I profoundly respect the armed forces of my country. In fact, they
 gave me the opportunity to work with them, and I profoundly admire the American people
 here as well. I want that to be very clear before I respond. What you're asking me is
 very complex, because at the moment when the Peruvian government decided to open this investigation
 office, they were admitting that there was a reality to this. They're not going to open
 an office on unicorns and ghosts. No, that's not what we're doing here. But on the other
 hand, this has been going on for 13 years, and we have seen minimal results. And when
 I talk to the military personnel, they say that they have seen UFOs, but they can't come
 out publicly and say because there is a policy that has not yet opened up. And so I would
 say that that's why I couldn't give it a 10. But that would just be my response.
 The Argentina government doesn't pronounce the extraterrestrial hypothesis open, but
 in the history of our traditions, for example, in 1968, the president of Argentina, General
 Longania, said, "I believe in the flying saucers." Yo creo en los platos voladores. That openness
 always exists. In that case, it was the president of a nation. But the government is investigating
 the UFOs with scientifically correctness in this moment. And in the future, maybe it will
 be some pronunciation. That is it.
 Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 I want to thank our panel for being here today. This has been really interesting, and your
 openness and what's happening in each of your countries has been, I think, a real eye-opener
 for the rest of us. And with that, I'm going to conclude this hearing. We will be back
 here at 1.45.
 Meeting adjourned.
