 And we'll begin with the two witnesses that are here.
 If you would be so kind as to repeat after me, I do hereby affirm that I will tell the
 truth and nothing but the truth to the members of this committee today.
 Thank you both.
 And we're going to begin with Dr. Greer.
 Thank you.
 It's an honor to be here.
 And I would just like to summarize this subject by saying that I got involved in 1990 when
 I formed the Center for the Study of Extraterrestrial Intelligence and put together some of the early
 briefings for folks in the administration of President Clinton.
 This occurred because in 1992 I was leading a team of people where we had a contact event
 on a beach in Florida.
 And this got reported into a Department of Defense memo or report that was done by John
 Peterson at the Arlington Institute.
 And he was friends with the man who became CI Director Woolsey.
 CI Director Woolsey invited us to come to Washington to meet with him and some folks
 to discuss this.
 And it was to my great surprise and dismay to learn that the CI Director had made inquiries
 into this subject and had not gotten any information.
 This was also true of President Clinton who, through Webster Hubbell, had also made inquiries.
 Because of this, we decided to put together an initiative which was called Project Starlight
 and it was very much involved in the early days with briefing senior people in the military
 and government.
 And to my dismay, I have to say at this point that we discovered that there was an extra
 constitutional management of this subject, which continues to this moment, which I find,
 as Eisenhower said, an existential threat to our democracy.
 It's for that reason, a few years ago I left my medical career to pursue this and to get
 the truth out to the public because I feel it's a matter of very pressing concern.
 I'm an emergency doctor and I always kind of halfway jokingly say I know an emergency
 when I see one and our planet and our government is in an emergency.
 During the period around the time we had our meetings with Mr. Rockefeller, I had already
 set up briefings through the head of intelligence for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Kramer,
 meeting at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base to which the remains of the Roswell event
 was sent.
 They initially did not want to have this meeting.
 It was ordered by the head of Air Force intelligence under the orders of J2, which as you know
 is head of intelligence, joint staff, Admiral Kramer.
 That then led to a series of events where we decided what we needed to do was pull together
 the best military, intelligence, and corporate, Lockheed, Northrop, and other witnesses as
 we call them, to this issue and begin to do briefings for various members of Congress
 and people in the administration.
 In 1995, I organized, and Mr. Rockefeller funded, a gathering of the first of witnesses
 at Isilomar near Monterey in California.
 These were people, they were cosmonauts, they were from Russia, they were astronauts such
 as Edgar Mitchell, they were people who had worked with Eisenhower and knew of Eisenhower's
 concern that he had lost control over the secrecy on this issue around 1956.
 Then ironically, the Rockefeller commission reorganized the Department of Defense and
 the CIA into such a Byzantine mess that to this day these projects have not had proper
 oversight at that level.
 This then led to us doing some meetings for members of Congress.
 We did in 1997, and Congressman Dan Burton, who was chairman of the House Government Oversight
 Committee came, along with a number of other congressmen and senators, and also following
 that, we did what's called a stand-up briefing, Edgar Mitchell and I did, the Sixth Man to
 Walk on the Moon, with some of our military sources for then head of intelligence joint
 staff, Admiral Tom Wilson.
 To my astonishment, when I had this meeting, I had sent in advance a briefing similar to
 the one that I provided here, this is the one I provided for President Obama.
 What I was astonished and appalled to learn is that the first document that I have in
 this document is a National Reconnaissance Office document that has actionable intelligence
 listing project code names and code numbers, effective as of the early '90s.
 This Admiral, Tom Wilson, looked through this document, identified one of the compartments,
 contacted them and was told, and I'm quoting, "Sir, you do not have a need to know."
 This is the head of intelligence for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and he said to the person,
 it was a contractor, I cannot disclose which one, he said that basically, "Sir, we will
 not discuss this with you further," and basically hung up on the Admiral.
 Because of that event, we then wrote a unless otherwise directed letter.
 My military advisor said, "Dr. Greer, what you need to do is do a UNOD letter that goes
 to all branches of government that says that we have concluded that this subject is being
 managed in an extra-constitutional fashion.
 A priori, the National Security Act no longer applies to those under those, and they are
 hereby exonerated or freed from them."
 We wrote such a letter to the heads of all agencies.
 It was never contested, and the way unless otherwise directed letter works is that unless
 you hear back from the agency, you are allowed to proceed with your assessment, and our assessment
 was that we were going to go forward with these men and women and documents.
 In fact, there was a senior CIA official who I have been asked not to name who is still
 in the science directorate of the CIA who said, "Please do this for our nation."
 At that point, we began to gather together more of these so-called witnesses.
 They've been called now.
 I call them patriots who want to have the truth out.
 We then did the 2001 disclosure project in this ballroom, and we're about at our 12-year
 anniversary of that, and I organized that for the purpose of getting the public informed
 and also Congress.
 There were tens of thousands of petitions sent to members of Congress in faxes asking
 for hearings.
 Unfortunately, a few months later, 9/11 happened.
 The day before 9/11, September 10th, that there was a memo from a comment, I should
 say, in a speech by then Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld who stated that there is $2.3 trillion
 unaccounted for in the Department of Defense budget.
 Let me repeat that number, $2.3 trillion.
 This was on September 10th, 2001.
 Now, prior to that, I was not surprised at that comment because back in 1994, I had a
 meeting with Mr. DeMato, not the senator, who was the chief counsel for the Senate Appropriations
 Committee, and he informed me that they felt that there was upwards of or in excess of
 $900 billion a year missing out of the Treasury going into so-called black projects.
 Now, this is a misnomer, just so that the committee knows, the proper term in the military
 and intelligence world is an unacknowledged special access project.
 Now, special access projects are projects that, of course, you have to be read into
 with various clearances.
 The unacknowledged ones are ones for which there is no acknowledgment on paper, and anyone
 in the project is ordered not to speak about it under threat of termination with extreme
 prejudice, which is death.
 My senior military advisor was in one such project.
 He has not even informed me what it concerned.
 It was under Admiral Harry Train.
 It was a $3 billion project.
 This is one project that was unacknowledged.
 So this is not a theory.
 This is how the deep national security state actually operates that the members of Congress
 usually are not aware of.
 Now, in the ensuing year, since 2001, we have continued these briefings.
 We've had greater success in other countries.
 There are now more than 14 countries that have opened their UFO files.
 We've been very instrumental in this.
 I've worked with people at the Vatican, the French government, and what is also very exciting
 is that one of the most important documents in history, which I'll provide to the committee,
 is a document from the Ministry of Defense of France committing to my organization to
 engage in a long-term project to make peaceful contact with these "visitors."
 This document has not been yet released.
 I will provide it to the committee, and there is great progress being made in other countries.
 Admiral Moran, who won the Ampere Prize in France and is an MD, as I am, and also a PhD
 physicist, and has been an advisor and was an advisor to President Sarkozy and others,
 has been meeting with us and we have been involved with projects in other countries
 to do this.
 I will tell you, however, that as they began to step into this, they were warned off by
 someone within the national security state saying, "Do not pursue this."
 We went to France about two years, three years ago, and we had an expedition to actually
 make contact with these extraterrestrial civilizations.
 The admiral later informed us that their radar tracked objects that came over the site at
 between 100,000 and 200,000 kilometers an hour.
 Now, what is fascinating about this is that the French were not deterred from doing this
 project with us, but they have to date remained fairly quiet.
 There is, therefore, progress being made in other G7 countries.
 As you know, we have a former Minister of Defense of Canada here who is very supportive,
 the Honorable Paul Hellyer, and what we find, however, is that the United States has remained
 a black hole of secrecy.
 Now, the reason for this is complex.
 One of the reasons is inertia.
 Once you go into an unacknowledged special access project, it's very hard to bring things
 out.
 Number two is that this is the crown jewel in America of the defense industry and the
 aerospace industry.
 My uncle was a senior project engineer at Grumman that became North of Grumman that
 put the first man on the moon with the lunar module.
 He worked on the lunar module, which is part of how I got involved with this.
 What I have found through my uncle and other contacts at Lockheed is that we have had since
 about the mid-1950s operational electromagnetic-gravitic devices, basically in parlance of the pop culture
 anti-gravity devices, that are deeply classified and are the next generation beyond rockets
 and jet aircraft.
 These are fully operational and not experimental.
 These have been used very discreetly.
 We have an enormous amount of information on this, including a facility, Norton Air
 Force Base, where we had Frank Carlucci, the Secretary of Defense for Ronald Reagan, was
 ushered in there, and some people who were with him, such as Brad Sorensen, have given
 us information and actually have helped us provide schematics and drawings for these
 so-called alien reproduction vehicles, a bit of a misnomer because in reality advanced
 anti-gravity research began with T. Townsend Brown in 1929.
 We will get more into this on Friday.
 The key point here is that the technologies that would give us a new civilization without
 oil, without gas, without coal, without nuclear power are extant.
 They already exist, they've been developed, and it is a matter of the utmost national
 security and world peace and justice that we bring these sciences out and start a new
 chapter in the human experience.
 Thank you.
 Daniel.
 I'd like to address the issue from the point of view of a practicing attorney in these
 particular areas.
 I just touched on it briefly earlier in the other panel that when I was at the Cahill
 Gordon law firm in New York, we were brought the Pentagon Papers at that time, and Jim
 Goodell, the chief counsel for the New York Times contacted us.
 I had been working on the briefs for the New York Times because I happened to have initiated
 the case that established the right of journalists to protect their confidential news sources
 when I was at the Harvard Civil Rights Law Review.
 So I was at the firm and was working on the briefs, and Jim Goodell brought us the information
 that they had the Pentagon Papers, and so it was the first time that I found myself
 in a situation where I had to kind of try to put myself in the shoes of people that
 I had the luxury prior to that time of just saying, "We ought to get it all out.
 We ought to just reveal everything.
 We ought to tell all the people have a right to know everything."
 And I found myself in this peculiar situation of starting to ask questions about what might
 be in there that we had to try to be careful about revealing.
 Now in that particular case, it wasn't a hard question because we found things about the
 assassination program of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Phoenix program.
 We found out that they were smuggling opium in Southeast Asia to help fund it.
 We found out about the Nugent Hand Bank that was set up by Theodore Shackley, who was the
 CIA station chief in Saigon.
 All the things that we found out about in that particular instance I felt were criminal
 conduct, unlawful conduct.
 And it had occurred because the Central Intelligence Agency, when it was created in 1947, was out
 of Section 5412, the 5412 committee was set up inside the National Security Council to
 actually oversee covert operations.
 For the first time, it actually legitimized the undertaking of covert operations that
 were not going to be revealed to the Congress.
 It was before we had an intelligence committee.
 You remember that Prescott Bush, the United States Senator from Connecticut, was the one
 who would brief in certain Congress people and certain senators about this.
 So there was this entire kind of extra constitutional process or protocols that began to be undertaken
 right at the very beginning.
 Finally, they set up the 5412 committee inside the National Security Council that oversaw
 those things.
 And as I said, I had never had access to that until we saw the Pentagon Papers, and on reviewing
 it with Neil Sheehan and the others, I came to the conclusion that all of this should
 be revealed, that these were criminal activities that had happened that were all happening
 outside of the United States, but they were having such dramatic effects inside the United
 States that I thought they ought to be talked about.
 But that was my first experience with this.
 As it proceeded, I ended up becoming chief counsel in the Karen Silkwood case, the woman
 that was killed out in Oklahoma at the nuclear site out there.
 And during our investigations of that, we discovered that 98 pounds of bomb-grade plutonium
 were being smuggled out of the Kermage nuclear facility, the reprocessing plant, and we discovered
 that it was actually being transported secretly to Israel.
 So I touched on that old third rail.
 There it was, and we went and we briefed Peter Stockton.
 He was the chief investigator for John Dingell.
 John Dingell was chairing the House Subcommittee on Energy and the Environment, and because
 of the oversight of authority they had over nuclear facilities environmentally, we briefed
 them and told them all about this, and they actually set up a -- they tasked a real-time
 national security agency satellite to actually monitor the smuggling of these materials and
 actually track them onto being put on charter oil company ships and then boarded by Mossad
 and brought to Israel, and at that time they were under the condition that they had to
 share some of the special nuclear materials, 98 percent pure bomb-grade plutonium, that
 they had to share them with the Shah of Iran.
 So that they actually were providing 98 percent pure bomb-grade plutonium, reprocessed plutonium
 to the Shah of Iran and to South Africa, the Afrikaner government.
 Now because of my discovery of that, it was a clear absolute blatant violation of the
 Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, and so I briefed the judge.
 We had the Judge Tice, Frank G. Tice, was the chief counsel -- was the judge on that
 case.
 I provided a memorandum to him, an affidavit to him explaining the whole thing, and the
 following Monday he contacted me and said the Central Intelligence Agency had contacted
 him and wanted to have an in-camera ex parte meeting with him, and he met with them and
 immediately dismissed one of the counts in our case, in the Karen Silkwood case, the
 whole -- her death on the highway.
 The whole interfering with her right to travel on the highway, her First Amendment right
 to meet with the New York Times, because David Burnham was waiting for her at the Holiday
 Inn to receive the documents showing that these -- it was 40 pounds, 98 percent pure
 platinum grade plutonium was missing.
 And when we gave that information to the congressman, nobody ever talked about it after that.
 They called Stan Turner in, they brought him downstairs, put him under oath, challenged
 him about this, and the only reason I knew about it was because Peter Stockton told us
 about it.
 So it became obvious again to me at that point that there were secrets that virtually everybody
 agreed within the political circles had to be kept secret, and this supplying -- our
 supplying in complete violation of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, 98 percent bomb grade
 plutonium to Israel was one of those things.
 And so I realized that at that time there were these -- there was this dimension, such
 as Dr. Greer has talked about, there are levels of classification that are way beyond people
 in the congress, way beyond us as civilians, but I spent a lot of time looking into this
 whole process.
 And as you know, I was the one that filed the original Iran-Contra case that got the
 special prosecutor appointed.
 We uncovered all the smuggling of the weapons that were going on, the cocaine smuggling
 operations that were going on.
 It became clear to me that everybody knew about this, that all kinds of people knew
 about this going on, but the citizens didn't.
 And as I tried to bring information to some people in congress and the senate, et cetera,
 talked with Tip O'Neill about all of this, and we -- as I discovered all this stuff was
 going on, I was then later contacted by Dr. John Mack, as I told you, to represent him,
 and I was aware of the fact that there was this realm of ultimate secrecy that existed.
 But I realized that there was a classification above everything that I'd ever seen that was
 cosmic, a cosmic top secret.
 There's a whole category of cosmic top secret that has to do with this particular category,
 and that there's information in there about contacts with these beings that were recovered
 from Roswell, a living being, one particular living being that they brought to Wright-Patterson,
 that they didn't know what to do with the being, they didn't know how to take care of
 the being, they had to keep the being isolated, but they were afraid of potential contamination.
 And I was challenged at that point to try to determine whether or not I would reveal
 these things to everyone.
 I kept trying to have contact with people inside the intelligence community to say look,
 if there's something that you think I ought to know that would convince me that the American
 people somehow shouldn't know about this, tell me about it, will you?
 Because if you're not going to tell me about it, I can tell you I'm going after it, and
 I'm going to be going after it in a context that may make it automatically available to
 anybody once I get it.
 And only a couple of times have I ever approached and said to stay away from these things.
 Well that's not an answer, just to stay away from it.
 And so what I've done is I'm just coming to you today to tell you that with my experience
 directly as one of the attorneys in the Pentagon Papers case, I was in F. Lee Bailey's office
 when we did the Watergate burglary.
 It was our office that got McCord to write the letter to Judge Sirica, blowing the whistle
 on the Watergate plumbers, the Karen Silkwood case with the smuggling of the plutonium,
 the Ron Contra case with all of the smuggling of cocaine that was going on.
 But nothing matches this issue.
 Nothing comes close to matching this issue.
 Because the reality of it is, is that because whatever this extraterrestrial intelligence
 is, they obviously share the belief that somehow we shouldn't be just told right straight outright.
 As people have said, why don't they land on the White House lawn and just tell us?
 So there is obviously some type of consensus that exists at the highest levels of the security,
 cosmic, top-secret clearance in our government.
 And when I asked Gorbachev about this, because I was legal counsel to the State of the World
 Forum for Gorbachev and Senator Baker at the end of the Cold War, he told me flat out that
 these things existed and that they'd known that these existed and they were in communication
 with the United States government about this.
 So what I'm saying is that we need to as citizens be insistent upon finding out about this unless
 and until somebody communicates information to us that makes sense as to why it is that
 people all shouldn't know about this.
 And they haven't told me that yet, and so until they do, I'm going to continue to try
 to find out everything I can about it and share it with people who've had the kind of
 responsible positions that you have had in your lives and still have in your lives.
 Because the reality is you still have political capital, whether you're 87 years old or 39
 years old or whatever your ages are now, that you still have political capital that can
 effectuate a change and that for you to go collectively to sit down with certain members
 of Congress or certain people together to say, "Look, this is what we know and we want
 to act responsibly.
 Can you please help us act responsibly, but we're going to act in any event?"
 And that's how you will find out, I believe.
 Mr. Cameron.
 As I explained this morning, my name is Grant Cameron.
 I'm a private investigator for 38 years.
 I've spent most of my time looking at what the highest levels of U.S. government, military
 and intelligence agencies know about the UFO phenomena.
 This afternoon, I'm speaking about the Rockefeller Initiative.
 My testimony is based on 1,000 pages of documents that were released to me in 2001 by the Clinton
 White House in response to an FOIAA for UFO files.
 It should be noted here that, like the documents you were talking about this morning, the Roswell
 documents that disappeared, these documents have now disappeared.
 Both the National Archives and the Clinton Library both maintain they do not have the
 documents.
 For example, I filed an FOIAA with the Clinton Library.
 I received about 1,000 pages of UFO documents, which included an awful lot of material that
 Stephen Greer had said to the President.
 The 1,000 pages that I'm going to talk about right now were not part of the disclosure,
 and both maintain that they don't have them.
 They are on my website, the President's UFO website, and basically what the documents
 show, these FOIAA documents show that billionaire businessman Lawrence Rockefeller had approached
 the White House to get the government to disclose the truth behind the UFO mystery.
 There was different Rockefellers.
 There was Nelson Rockefeller, who was the political guy who ran for government.
 There was David, who was the money guy, and Lawrence Rockefeller was this sort of humanitarian,
 had a philosophy degree from Princeton, and was very interested in this phenomena.
 Rockefeller also had other meetings outside the White House.
 One example was with Republican Stephen Horn, Republican from California, from the Government
 Reform and Oversight Committee related to government secrecy.
 Rockefeller's request for UFO disclosure was dealt with in the White House by the President's
 science advisor, Dr. Jack Gibbons.
 To prepare for the first meeting in March of 1993 with Rockefeller, Dr. Gibbons requested
 a UFO briefing from the CIA.
 That briefing was tasked at the CIA to Dr. Ronald Pandolfi.
 So if you want to know, that's probably the guy you should be phoning.
 Dr. Ronald Pandolfi, who's been identified by the New York Times as the top scientist
 in the CIA, and a man who is rumored inside the UFO community as the agency expert on
 UFOs, and a man that over the last 20 years has repeatedly interacted with many researchers
 inside the UFO community.
 As the CIA has a public position of no UFO involvement, Pandolfi gave the job of writing
 the White House briefing, which he knew would become public because Lawrence Rockefeller
 was involved.
 He gave that briefing job to a private UFO researcher, Mr. Bruce McAbee, who had done
 a couple of UFO lunchtime talks at the CIA headquarters.
 The briefing therefore became not an official briefing on the subject, but just a personal
 opinion of one researcher inside the UFO community.
 Rockefeller exerted great pressure on the Clinton White House, threatening to write
 an open letter demanding UFO disclosure from President Clinton, and to make this demand
 public in full-page ads in all the major newspapers in the United States.
 Under this pressure, Dr. Gibbons agreed to try to get some sort of disclosure on the
 UFO subject.
 He asked Mr. Rockefeller to pick one case that could be declassified, and then all the
 rest of the cover-up material could be dealt with.
 Mr. Rockefeller picked the 1947 UFO crash at Roswell as the case to investigate.
 And that is one of the reasons why there was a reinvestigation of the Roswell crash by
 the U.S. Air Force in 1994.
 The U.S. Air Force did not decide to do it on their own.
 At the same time, the White House was green-lighting a reinvestigation of Roswell.
 The Government Accountability Office was also doing a reinvestigation of the Roswell crash.
 That investigation was initiated by New Mexico Congressman Steven Schiff, who ordered the
 GAO investigation after his requests for information were stonewalled by Clinton's first Secretary
 of Defense, Les Aspin.
 The G.O.A. study, however, was quite limited; only FOIA replies on the Roswell crash were
 used.
 Nothing was found except that a bunch of key Roswell documents from the time of the crash
 that would have indicated what had happened were missing.
 Therefore, no conclusion was offered.
 The U.S. Air Force reinvestigation discovered a way to bypass the actual reinvestigation
 of the crash, rather than following the testimony of many of the witnesses that will be appearing
 here this week.
 They simply published a final report stating that the whole 1947 crash event had been caused
 by the launch of a mogul balloon designed to monitor a possible Soviet nuclear test.
 In 1995, in Belfast, Northern Ireland, President Clinton challenged the official U.S. Air Force
 Roswell report, which had no discussion of the reported alien bodies.
 In a speech that he gave, he stated, "As far as I know, an alien spacecraft did not crash
 in Roswell, New Mexico, but if the United States Air Force did recover alien bodies,
 they didn't tell me about it either, and I want to know."
 This open challenge in Northern Ireland forced the U.S. Air Force to do a second Roswell
 crash report.
 The U.S. Air Force released this report to a room of laughing reporters as they described
 how six-foot tall wooden dummies dressed in Air Force uniforms in 1953 somehow explained
 what people had described as small four-foot gray creatures in 1947, including one alien
 that was still alive.
 The report was the Air Force's lame attempt intended to answer Clinton's challenge about
 the alien bodies mentioned in Belfast.
 Without any official record of the event, Lawrence Rockefeller did sit down with Bill
 and Hillary Clinton, and most of those documents were provided by Stephen Greer, who provided
 them to Lawrence Rockefeller.
 They met at the Wyoming JY Ranch, which was controlled by the Rockefellers.
 Rockefeller briefed both Bill and Hillary Clinton on the best available evidence for
 UFOs and for the need to make that information available to the American people.
 The mention of Hillary's name in the 1995 briefing at the Rockefeller Ranch is important
 because the Rockefeller Initiative documents that I recovered show that Hillary played
 a key role in the Rockefeller White House initiative on UFOs.
 There are two key documents.
 In November 1, 1995, there's a letter from Rockefeller's lawyer to the president's science
 advisor, and in that it points out that Hillary and her staff have been helping Lawrence Rockefeller
 edit a letter of UFO disclosure to the president.
 The letter was called "Lifting Secrecy of Information about Extraterrestrial Intelligence
 as Part of the Current Classification Review."
 What was happening was Lawrence was sending this document to various people, and he would
 threaten to send the letter to the president if he didn't get cooperation, and various
 people helped him edit the letter.
 Hillary was one of the people who helped edit this letter on UFO disclosure.
 In a second 1996 letter from Rockefeller to the president's science advisor, in the letter
 he clearly spells out the information that is coming from Rockefeller to the science
 advisor to President Clinton, and from President Clinton's science advisor to Rockefeller,
 all that material is going through Hillary Clinton's First Lady's office.
 In 2006, the initiative faded out after the briefing at the ranch, and Rockefeller moved
 on to fund other UFO research activities.
 1996, pardon me.
 If you just apologize, I have a meeting at the Justice Department, like at 3 o'clock,
 and I'll be gone until 5 and I'll be back.
 I apologize, but I have to go, okay?
 You've all been there.
 I think.
 We get it.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 See you later.
 Okay, well I will be repeating obviously some of the material that has been covered by some
 of the other panelists, but this is my prepared statement.
 Throughout most of the 1990s, a significant amount of UFO-related research was funded
 by the billionaire philanthropist Lawrence S. Rockefeller.
 Yet with a few exceptions, this was mostly unknown by the general public, the media,
 and even the majority of the ufological community.
 It was also ignored by the mainstream world, who chose to ignore the unconventional side
 of one of the Rockefellers.
 His long official biography posted online by the Rockefeller Archive Center doesn't
 mention any of his UFO, paranormal, new age, and consciousness-oriented interests, and
 neither did the long obituaries published by the New York Times, the Washington Post,
 and other mainstream publications when he died in 2004 at the age of 94.
 And yet, these activities were not small in consequential part of the philanthropist's
 life.
 He seemed to have spent quite a bit of time thinking, meeting people, and funding research
 in the period going from the late 1980s to 2000.
 Without access to his financial records, there's no way of knowing how much money he spent,
 but it must be around a few million dollars at the least.
 Although I never met him personally, I know something about it because I had the opportunity
 of working firsthand in one of Lawrence Rockefeller's sponsored projects, the UFO briefing document,
 The Best Available Evidence, a special report published in December 1995 sent to the White
 House, selected members of Congress, and VIPs, which is now available for free at the OpenMinds.tv
 website.
 First activities, in fact, went beyond funding into actual lobbying at the highest level.
 President Bill Clinton and the First Lady and current secretary, well, no longer current
 secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 Long before the term exopolitics was in vogue, Lawrence Rockefeller was practicing it in
 the White House from 1993 to 1996.
 This has come to be known as the Rockefeller UFO Initiative, a multi-pronged campaign to
 get the U.S. government to release sensitive information on UFOs and extraterrestrial intelligence.
 The initiative is documented in hundreds of pages of correspondence, released a few years
 ago by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, or STP, under the Freedom
 of Information Act.
 These documents can be accessed at the Paradigm Research Group website, and also, of course,
 Grant Cameron has obtained lots of additional documents.
 I'm enclosing a long article describing all the various facets of the so-called Lawrence
 Rockefeller UFO Initiative, published in the Open Minds magazine, number 6, February, March
 2011.
 It is not necessary to go into the biographical background of Mr. Rockefeller in this short
 presentation, except to note that he was one of the original grandsons of the founder of
 the dynasty, John D. Rockefeller, that he was obviously extremely wealthy and well-connected,
 that he had studied philosophy at Princeton and was quite a visionary even in business,
 where he seemed to be always ahead of the curve, backing aeronautics in the '30s, electronics
 in the '60s, and conservation and environmental efforts throughout his long career.
 Although the mainstream media chose to ignore it, his intense interest in UFOs and ET issues
 in the '90s fits very well with this pattern.
 Mr. Rockefeller backed many UFO-related projects in the period between the late '80s and 2000,
 but for the purpose of this hearing, we will concentrate on his political initiatives in
 these areas.
 Lawrence Rockefeller's first forays in topology started sometime in the late '80s through
 Dr. Cecil B. Scott-Jones, a parapsychologist and former U.S. Navy commander who had worked
 as naval attache in Asia and at the Naval Scientific and Technical Intelligence Center.
 Between 1985 and 1991, Jones was special assistant to Senator Claiborne Pell, the powerful Rhode
 Island Democrat chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, who was deeply interested
 in parapsychology and who probably many of you met personally.
 Senator Pell was also friends with Lawrence Rockefeller and both served on the board of
 the Human Potential Foundation, a small think tank launched in 1989 in Vienna, Virginia
 by Jones to conduct "research into all conditions of humankind, physiological, psychological,
 and spiritual."
 Many of the papers released by the White House OSTP come from Scott-Jones, who knew Dr. John
 Gibbons, a physicist who worked for many years as director of the Office of Technology Assessment
 for the U.S. Congress and was appointed in 1993 by the Clinton administration to direct
 the OSTP.
 What was the exact turning point of Lawrence Rockefeller's evolution from a general interest
 in consciousness studies into the specific area of UFOs and extraterrestrial intelligence
 is still unclear, but the end of the Cold War and the arrival in Washington of a younger
 generation represented by Bill and Hillary Clinton are key factors.
 He felt the time was ripe for a new and fresh approach into an area that had been previously
 dominated by a Cold War mentality.
 Rockefeller recruited for these efforts a longtime associate, Henry L. Diamond, an environmental
 attorney from Washington, D.C., whose links to the family went all the way back to the
 1960s when he worked with Lawrence in his conservation activities.
 Diamond also knew John Gibbons, and so he was the right person to make the first contact
 with the OSTP chief when he sent a memorandum on March 29, 1993, requesting a meeting, and
 I'm quoting now the first paragraph.
 Lawrence S. Rockefeller, who is a leading U.S. conservationist, businessman, and philanthropist,
 is anxious to have a brief meeting with Dr. Gibbons to discuss the potential availability
 of government information about unidentified flying objects and extraterrestrial life.
 As one who has had a longtime interest in environmental and spiritual issues, Mr. Rockefeller,
 with other leading citizens, is planning to make an approach to President Clinton on this
 subject.
 The details of Rockefeller's White House lobbying effort are described in my article and also
 in the documents themselves posted by PRG.
 We know from the record that following the initial meeting with Gibbons and subsequent
 correspondence, the government decided to constrict the more general issue of UFOs into
 the specific and famous UFO crash of July 1947 in Roswell, New Mexico.
 This incident will be discussed in detail at a later session during this hearing.
 After ignoring it for decades, the Air Force had then taken the decision to finally make
 a big public statement, which took place in 1994 with its official report that explained
 or debunked the incident as a one-stop secret balloon project to detect the Soviets' first
 atomic bomb test codenamed Project Mogul.
 This derailed to a great extent the initial Rockefeller effort at the White House, but
 didn't stop him to try a different approach.
 By 1995, Lawrence Rockefeller switched his UFO-related coordinator from Scott Jones to
 Marie Goldbreath, the well-connected wife of investment banker Evan Goldbreath, who
 was ambassador to France during the Reagan administration, Republican candidate for New
 York governor in 1994, and chairman of William Buckley's National Review, among other things.
 Marie Goldbreath and Sandra S. Wright, another well-connected high society lady who run the
 BSW Foundation, had come up with the idea of preparing a comprehensive UFO briefing
 document that could be sent to members of Congress and VIPs in general.
 The original draft was written by Don Berliner, an aviation journalist and long-time ufologist
 with the Fund for UFO Research, FUFOR, in the Washington area, and I was brought in
 to help edit and expand the document from a small office ran by Marie Goldbreath in
 New York's Madison Avenue.
 The final briefing document was finished in December 1995, but sent out in early 1996.
 It was Rockefeller's and Goldbreath's idea to give the copyright to the UFO Research
 Coalition, a consortium of the three main American UFO organizations, MUFON, that is
 the Neutral UFO Network, CUFOS, Center for UFO Studies, and FUFOR, the Fund for UFO Research,
 whose directors endorsed the document.
 Copies of the report were sent to Dr. Gibbons at the White House, some members of Congress
 and VIPs worldwide, but there was no well-connected effort to disseminate the document, and as
 a result, its political impact was limited.
 The one exception was France, due to Marie Goldbreath's extensive connections there from
 her U.S. Embassy days back in the 1980s.
 Copies of the UFO briefing document were sent from President Chirac down the food chain
 in the French government.
 We had received, in fact, many interesting documents and reports from the official French
 UFO group at the National Center for Space Studies, CNS, the French equivalent to NASA,
 then called CEPRA, and now J-PAN.
 And one of the briefings' case histories was the famous UFO landing case in Transant
 Provence in 1981.
 I will have more to say about the French official UFO investigation at a later session in this
 hearing.
 There can be little doubt that the UFO briefing document became the model for the Cometa report,
 an important study conducted by a group of retired French generals and intelligence officers
 led by Major General Denis Letti.
 In their final 1999 report titled "UFOs and Defense, What Should We Prepare For?"
 the Cometa authors praised highly, quote, "the leading U.S. personality, Marie Goldbreath,
 who was supported both morally and financially by Lawrence Rockefeller."
 That's from the Cometa report.
 Marie Goldbreath was also the coordinator for a number of separate UFO-related projects
 funded by the philanthropists.
 By 1997, Lawrence Rockefeller dropped the political UFO initiatives and concentrated
 instead on the scientific angle.
 A major meeting, close to both the public and the press, was held from September 29
 to October 3, 1997, at the Pocantico Conference Center in Taritone, New York.
 The chief coordinator and author of the final report was Dr. Peter A. Sturrock, an astrophysicist
 from Stanford University who also directed for many years the Society for Scientific
 Exploration, SSE.
 The idea was to gather a group of professional scientists, many of them from Europe, and
 have scientifically trained UFO researchers present the best evidence to a panel of neutral
 scientists.
 The presentations touched upon all the main scientific areas, photographic evidence, luminosity
 estimates, radar evidence, the Hess-Dowling Project.
 This is a place in Norway where unexplained lights have been recorded for many years.
 Vehicle interference, aircraft equipment malfunction, apparent gravitational and/or inertial effects,
 ground traces, injuries to vegetation, physiological effects on witnesses, and analysis of debris.
 You can consult Professor Sturrock's final report on the scientific conference, the UFO
 Enigma, a new review of the physical evidence.
 It was published by Warner Books in 1999, and it's also available on the SSE's website,
 the complete report, for all the details and data.
 Rockefeller seemed very satisfied with the results of this event, and he even wrote the
 books forward, which became his only statement on UFOs written for publication.
 By 2000, Lawrence Rockefeller reached the age of 90 and was concentrated on his private
 family affairs.
 For all practical purposes, the Rockefeller UFO initiative and funding, whether scientific,
 political, or philosophical, was over.
 But his contribution to the field was certainly extensive.
 We hope that other philanthropists will follow in his path and try to solve the mystery of
 UFOs.
 Both the political and scientific approaches are valid and necessary in order to understand
 the complex ramifications of this phenomenon.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 I believe we're a little over time, so how much time will each panelist get?
 Six minutes.
 All right, and I will follow in the footsteps of my co-chair and waive my turn till the
 end.
 So Mr. Bartlett.
 Thank you very much.
 Dr. Greer, you mentioned that there was a very large amount of money that could not
 be accounted for in the Pentagon.
 The Pentagon still cannot be audited.
 They hope that they may have books in several years in the future that could be audited.
 They will not be.
 It's hard to believe that in today's world that, and you know, they spend about half
 of all the money we vote to spend in the Congress, and we don't spend 1% of our time in the Congress
 talking about this expenditure.
 There's a day or so, once a year, when we debate this on the floor and pass this bill,
 and this spends about half of all the money that we vote to spend.
 It's just incredible to me that it's been this long and they still do not have books
 that can be audited.
 You mentioned anti-gravity devices.
 I'd like to know a little bit more about that.
 I know that this is one of the things that Stephen Hawking is trying to harmonize, relativity,
 gravity and so forth.
 Many people believe that he may be the best mind in a millennium, the Britisher who...
 Yeah, right.
 Well, I think that actually there are two tracks in physics.
 There's the track you'd find at MIT and there's the track you'd find at the Naval Research
 Labs.
 There's the third highest ranking scientist there, and some other folks, as well as some
 physicists down near the Redstone Arsenal and the Marshall Space Flight Center.
 I can assure you that they have used very high voltage systems at low input of power,
 meaning low total energy consumption, to create what's called a pointy vector into space.
 This is tapping what's called the zero point energy field, the renowned defense journalist
 Nick Cook wrote a book about this called The Hunt for Zero Point.
 Without getting too much into the physics of this, I will just say that studies on this
 matter began actually in the 1920s with T. Townsend Brown, who later became key to the
 Rand Corporation.
 But also, I should point out that in Germany, the Koloski-Frost experiment, which we'll
 go into on Friday, using crystalline structures, and now we're using nano-crystalline materials
 like you find in transformers to create a electromagnetic field, if you will, around
 an object that gives it lift.
 And there are classified aspects of some of our known aircraft, and I talked to Admiral
 Wilson about this, such as the B-2 Stealth, that involved this.
 But the ones that look like they're circular, so-called flying saucers, there have been
 prototypes of this for a number of years, and about October 1954, from sources I have
 who have been in what's called the Vault at the National Security Agency and other facilities,
 we really figured out gravity control, which means that we can do lifter systems, such
 as the ones that people report in UFOs.
 I'd like to reserve enough time to ask you about something else that you mentioned that
 really concerns me.
 Mr. Sheehan mentioned necessary secrets, things that we keep from the American people.
 I really am conflicted in this area.
 I will acknowledge that you may argue that there are necessary secrets, that there are
 black projects, you didn't characterize them that way, but some of these top, top secret
 things that you're talking about, above top secret, it's a black world, I've had several
 briefings and a special skiff on black projects.
 If you can do this, then for the good of the American people, you can ignore the Constitution
 to do good things.
 And we do that.
 We do ignore the Constitution to do good things.
 We're ignoring the Constitution to do all of the welfare we do, because it's not an
 Article I, there's not an enumerated power.
 We're ignoring the Constitution to do all of the healthcare that we do.
 We're ignoring the Constitution to do all of the education that we do, because none
 of those three things, where we spend a huge amount of money, are specific enumerated powers
 in Article I, Section 8, and both the Ninth Amendment and the Tenth Amendment, pretty
 clearly say if you can't find it there, you can't do it.
 Now my conflict is that whereas I recognize that there may be necessary secrets, if you
 extrapolate from this, then you can ignore the Constitution to do good things.
 If today you ignore the Constitution to do good things, tomorrow you can ignore the Constitution
 to do bad things.
 Well, I think that's where we are today, and I think this is what Dwight Eisenhower, President
 Eisenhower said in his last address when he said, "Beware the military-industrial complex."
 And if I might say so, I think that the withholding from the public of this information is not
 only a crime against humanity, it is actually causing us to stay on a petrodollar system
 that is destroying the environment.
 I think most people miss the reason.
 My meeting with the CIA Director Wolsey, the only thing he wanted to know is, "Why won't
 they tell me about this?"
 And the same thing with Lord Hill Norton, the Minister of Defense of Great Britain,
 and I said, "Sir, the reason they don't is that you're good folk, and you would not go
 along with criminal secrecy, illegal secrecy, that is withholding science and technologies
 that would give us a civilization without oil."
 Now, but that's a multi-trillion dollar problem, and I think we've reached the point where
 the tail is wagging the dog.
 The special interest and the influence from corrupting, I'm going to use the word, corrupting
 influences within the national security state ties right straight into the macroeconomic
 order and the petrodollar system.
 The secrecy isn't because people are going to hurl themselves off the bridge into the
 Potomac River because we're not alone in the universe.
 Sixty-five percent of the public believe there's intelligent life out there.
 Over half the public believe we've been visited.
 Forty-three percent believe they're here and visiting us currently, and these are in recent
 polls.
 The bigger issue is, why would we be keeping this secret?
 There is a document that I have from the Federation of American Scientists released two years
 ago that there are 5,135 patents that have been seized under the National Security Act.
 Dr. Greer, we have to end your response, and it is Senator Gravel.
 I won't take my full time because some of these questions need to be elaborated like
 Dr. Greer was doing, but let me add, because of our view that we want to get the Congress
 to do something, there's a ruling of the Supreme Court, and my colleague will be interested
 in about the constitutionality of it.
 I was prosecuted by the Nixon administration, and my defense, which Danny Sheen is very
 knowledgeable about, was the speech and debate clause of the constitution.
 I released the Pentagon Papers as a sitting United States Senator.
 That ruling was finally rendered in 1972.
 It was a 9-4 that still left me exposed because I published the papers outside of the Senate
 in addition to releasing them in the Senate, but it was a unanimous decision that I had
 the right to reveal any secret that I had knowledge of to the public and could not be
 questioned in any other domain of the government.
 That is the law of the land since 1972, and it hasn't been changed.
 No, there's the law, and there's the law that's sanctified by the Supreme Court decision,
 and so this element of the constitution is rock solid, and yet, when we turn to the Congress,
 oh, why don't they ... First, they're being lied to, but what little information you get
 like the various committees on secrecy and defense, I mean, they have bodies of knowledge
 that they should just as a matter of course release to the American people, and that would
 begin to alter this paradigm that we accept as a nation that we can be lied to by our
 politicians wantonly, and nothing is ever done about it.
 That's one comment I wanted to add, and I want to add to him also, he was saying it,
 but I want to say it more clearly.
 The Defense Department has never been auditable.
 You can't audit it, and it's wishful thinking that you think that they'll ever get to
 that because it's convenient to not audit what's going on.
 The other is I want to add to Sheehan's comments, which of course was I'm sure a revelation
 to a lot of people, that here in Israel, we shipped this nuclear capability to Israel,
 and one of their tasks was to share it with the Shah.
 Well, the adding to that is we gave the Shah an experimental nuclear reactor, which is
 in Tehran today, and the plan for that reactor was to be able to build bombs that would be
 under the control of the Shah or under the control of the United States.
 What had happened after the revolution, and this is what most Americans don't know right
 now, is that it was the Ayatollah Khomeini who made the decision that that reactor would
 not be used for any nuclear devices, bomb-making devices.
 It was an internal decision by the supreme, the imam, that they would not do that because
 the Quran did not sanction weapons of mass destruction.
 And now when you get the take by American media that, "Oh my God, they're searching
 for the bomb."
 We tried to give them the bomb under the Shah, and they're the ones that decided they don't
 want it.
 It's immoral.
 I just wanted to add that.
 Those are the two points that I wanted to make.
 I'll yield back the balance of my time because I can't think of an intelligent question I
 could ask to the intelligent testimony we just had.
 That's nice.
 Congresswoman Kilpatrick.
 Thank you very much, and again, thank you for your testimony.
 You're absolutely right, Senator.
 I think today's whole experience has been one of intelligence, higher than we're normal
 in our society.
 Maybe this room itself and our subject matter may have something to do with that, but we
 appreciate your service.
 Thank you.
 Going back to the millions of dollars that are missing, or inaudible, or missing, in
 the defensive budget over several years, 2.3, Dr. Greer, I think was the number you gave,
 2.3 trillion, 2.3 trillion, and that's over several years.
 I know most of you know at the table that we have also passed an intelligence budget
 in the Congress.
 All intelligence matters are funded in that budget, and as members of Congress, we don't
 debate it.
 We don't know its bottom number or any of that because, quote, it's over our classified.
 Members of Congress are also classified to a point.
 When we come in office, as you know, I'm sure we take an oath and sign for the intelligence
 level that we can hear.
 Of course, there's super, super intelligence that we don't, and I think we're discussing
 much of that today, which is where the money is and where that intelligence budget is gone.
 You mentioned emergency and everything we talked about today, and my newspaper person
 came up to me this ... I told them I'll speak to them on Friday after I learn more, but
 they still keep coming.
 I don't usually speak unless I know something.
 I'm trying to learn, so I don't have much to say.
 You mentioned that it's emergency.
 It's emergency now.
 Several other speakers this morning mentioned that they're here.
 They're not the only ones here, and that God is the universe.
 I just believe there's got to be a whole lot of other things that we don't yet know, and
 will soon, hopefully.
 Is there an emergency?
 What happens if we do nothing?
 What ought we do?
 How should we do it?
 Well, I think that there's a wonderful Chinese saying, "Unless we change directions, we're
 likely to end up where we're going."
 The point is, if you look at the trend lines of where our civilization's going, the intractable
 mess we have in the Middle East, and of course, when we say national security interests in
 the Middle East, it means oil.
 As pointed out, Israel has about 200 or 300 thermonuclear weapons.
 They can take care of themselves.
 Why are we still on oil?
 I think we're on oil, and coal, and nuclear power, because there has been an active longitude
 and a long-term suppression of really advanced sciences and technologies.
 I think that this has created both a geopolitical emergency and a geophysical emergency.
 Whether you believe in global warming or not, you cannot have seven billion people burning
 oil, and gas, and coal indefinitely.
 What are going to be the solutions?
 Now, my farm in Virginia runs on solar.
 Luckily, I was, I guess, affluent enough to put in a huge solar farm.
 It's the biggest private solar farm in Virginia, but it's not practical for most people, whereas
 there are advanced technologies dealing with the physics of zero-point energy, so that
 every home and car would have a generator pulling energy out of the fabric of space-time,
 and you would never have to burn another drop of oil.
 Why are we not there?
 Why are we not doing that?
 Because there has been active suppression of this information.
 As Mr. Sheehan reported, there are people on my team who have been threatened.
 There is a man working on one of these devices for my group.
 We provided some grant funding, and about two or three years ago, a former CIA director,
 who I don't want to talk about, with a group of people went down there and threatened him
 and his wife if he didn't stop.
 So this is a man who is attached to IT&T and does contract work for the CIA.
 He had been clear to do it for us.
 Why then?
 Wait, doctor.
 If people have been, what was that word?
 He was threatened.
 Threatened.
 Yeah.
 Threatened, near-death, exercise, eliminated, or whatever that means.
 Right.
 Why then are we talking to you today, and how are you so healthy today?
 Any of them is threatening you, or are you just strong?
 I'm strong.
 Right.
 And we have a lot of good friends, and there are folks.
 People mentioned Dr. Ron Pandolfi at the CIA, and I did spend a lot of time with Lawrence
 Rockefeller.
 There are a lot of people who have supported what we're trying to do.
 There are a lot of people who are opposed to what we're trying to do.
 There is a committee, it used to be called Majestic, that deals with this issue.
 And I will give the committee a document, this document I refer to, and the second one
 down is Cosmic Ops, and the third one is Magic Ops and Magi Ops.
 You know how important that would be if we had it in front of us?
 Which is my point.
 We're going to get it for you.
 We need all of it.
 Yeah.
 We need your testimony.
 It helps us prepare.
 And when you refer to things, we can see it as well as hear it, and it's internalized
 better.
 I appreciate it.
 And we have a computer disk we'll give each of you that has all of this.
 What's key about the document, however, is that these compartmented operations that are
 known to exist work mainly in the science and technology area.
 And this particular document is from the National Reconnaissance Office, and it was a security
 breach warning for Nellis Air Force Base.
 And of course, we would only need things that we can see legally, you know, whichever classifications
 we are.
 You may have something that you cannot share, and that's okay, too.
 Well, no, I don't.
 Actually, everything that we have, even if -- we have determined, as I said through the
 unless otherwise directed order that we sent out a letter, that all of this information
 is declassified.
 All right.
 Because we have determined that the secrecy has been maintained outside a proper constitutional
 -- look, I met personally with the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency for a very
 long period of time.
 He was given information, actionable intelligence, and he, along -- as well as Admiral Wilson,
 and this man is General Patrick Hughes, and many of you may have known him.
 He was denied access.
 That has got to be illegal.
 You cannot be denying senior people who are in the chain of command.
 And so --
 Okay.
 You have to stop there, because my minute is up.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 But just thank you for that.
 Thank you.
 And we want to work with you.
 We want the information --
 Thank you.
 -- in writing, as well as verbally, and I yield back the balance of my time.
 Thank you.
 Yes.
 You'll get all of this.
 This is all for you.
 Thank you very much.
 [Applause.]
 Congressman Cook.
 Yes.
 I'd like to continue with Dr. Greer for a moment.
 You talked about 14 countries that have opened up UFO files, and I take it that these are
 probably similar to files that the United States has that the United States government
 has refused to open up.
 Am I right in that implication?
 To clarify, those are the documents that would be available within those governments that
 are not in an unacknowledged special access project.
 Great Britain, for example, has recently opened up a large number of files, but those are
 the ones that can be obtained by a FOIA-type officer, same thing in France.
 There are corollaries to these unacknowledged projects in some of these other countries,
 which we have discovered -- Great Britain, certainly, Canada, certainly, and also France.
 But I think that what we have to understand is that they have at least been making the
 attempt to show interest and support for bringing out this information.
 I think in South America, we've even seen more support, with some governments having
 offices in their ministries of defense, investigating this and releasing information almost in real
 time.
 So I think we're seeing more disclosure in some of these other countries.
 The United States has been the most recalcitrant.
 You've indicated, as we've just talked about, the $2.3 trillion that you said is completely
 missing from the Department of Defense budget over, what, a couple decades?
 Well, Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld didn't comment on how long.
 Now, Secretary of Defense Cohen -- I think most of you may have known him during the
 Clinton years -- he was given information also from Gordon Cooper, one of our witnesses
 who was an astronaut, and he also said, "Look, I've looked into this, and there's a great
 deal of activity, but they won't share it with me," from the secretary of defense.
 So yeah, but that $2.3 trillion, we don't know quite where it's going.
 Okay, but when you say that we don't know quite where it's going, is it part of that
 or all of that or some of that, the unacknowledged special access processes that you talk about?
 Projects yet, USABs.
 Projects.
 Unacknowledged special access projects.
 Projects.
 Those, yes, by definition, if the secretary of defense keeps tracking --
 So a lot of that $2.3 trillion is those?
 Over several decades, and we estimate it's between, at this point, $100 billion and $200
 billion a year.
 Okay.
 That would give us universal health care, by the way.
 And I'm not defending any of this part, but look --
 [applause]
 I'm not defending this aspect of it, but if $2.3 trillion is, in fact, the unacknowledged
 special access project, is that what you're saying?
 Apparently, if the secretary of defense --
 Well, that's not really -- oh, you're saying it could be.
 You just don't know.
 We think it is, and in fact, I believe that's what he was saying over a number of years,
 many years.
 If we have counted in those projects things like anti-gravity machines, things like space
 elevators that are based on anti-gravity research and magnetism and electricity that goes far
 beyond any of us are really totally aware of right now, or some may be, or I can think
 of a number of things, but here's my question.
 Yes.
 And I want you to really give me your best possible feeling on this.
 Is some of that clearly, legitimately, withheld for national security reasons?
 Yes.
 In fact, I was approached by some folks after Obama was elected to support an initiative
 to privately bring out the lifter or electromagnetic gravitics, and I said because they could become
 a delivery system, and I was meeting with an Air Force colonel at the time, I think
 that some of that needs to be looked at very carefully.
 However, the stationary energy generation systems that would get us off oil, gas, and
 coal tomorrow, those should be brought out.
 So I think that --
 Of course.
 So I think you do have to have a very -- and I'm saying this, and I know there are people
 who probably in the disclosure movement are going to be appalled by what I'm about to
 say -- is that we do not yet live in a world where everyone on the planet should have a
 lifter and transfer transportation system that could get us from here to Paris in two
 or three minutes, and I think that those sort of technologies obviously have weapons delivery
 applications.
 However, the part of the technology that deals with energy generation should come out and
 has also been suppressed for reasons mainly of macroeconomic stability, because as you
 know, part of the national security discussion has always been these would be highly disruptive
 technologies, to which I say, well, good, you want to be disrupted now or later when
 we go through a terminus with the environment melting down around us.
 We have got to make these hard decisions.
 Okay, well, then my last question to you, Dr. Crere, would be these 14 countries that
 are disclosing, or at least making it possible for the people in those countries and people
 around the world to know what's in those files, is it possible that one of the reasons they
 may be motivated over the United States is because they think some of this stuff that's
 being seen and this phenomena, the maneuvering that's been talked about, the maneuvering
 that defies the laws of physics, might be something the United States is testing, that
 the United States just refuses to talk about?
 Correct.
 They do know that that's the case, and in fact, yes.
 In fact, in the French government, we've had discussions about this.
 They know that some of these objects have extraterrestrial origin.
 They know that some of them are man-made, and the Lockheed Skunk Works and some of my
 witnesses and sources work in the famous Skunk Works, and I will tell you that Ben Rich,
 who headed up the Lockheed Skunk Works, said before he died, and we have a witness to this
 comment that we "already have the technologies to take ET home."
 In other words, we already have at the Skunk Works interstellar-capable technologies.
 Thank you.
 Thank you, Ms. Scherer.
 Thank you, first of all, for your testimony, it's been incredibly interesting.
 When you have other countries opening up, is there any reason that we shouldn't do the
 same, at least to the extent that they're doing?
 We talked about, or you talked about some restrictions at places that we might not want
 to go for actually really good reasons.
 Is there any reason that we shouldn't open up as much as some of the other countries
 have done?
 No, there's not, and in fact, I think that in reality, the secrecy undermines our democracy,
 and my mom's family were some of the original founders of the United States.
 They were the first, well, we say the losers, who got caught by the British and were thrown
 in prison, so we were the first POWs, and my family and many of us, and my uncle who
 worked at Northrop Grumman, are appalled at the illegality of the secrecy and the ruthlessness
 with which it's been enforced, and those of us who've gone through that buzzsaw, and
 I've gone through a fair amount of it, it is not pretty, and what I would say is that
 this really does undermine our whole concept of a free society.
 It also undermines the credibility of government.
 This was one of my key points that I made to Mr. Rockefeller and to the Clinton administration,
 is that when you have almost 60 percent of the public believing this is real and some
 part of the government's hiding it, it makes a laughing stock when the Air Force has trotted
 out to say everything's a weather balloon.
 It's just as ridiculous, so the more we can release, the better, and I think the technology
 end of it needs to at least be released at the level where we would be able to have practical
 applications and sort of a peace dividend and an environmental dividend to this $2.3
 trillion that are unaccounted for in the Department of Defense, and that certainly ought to happen.
 [Applause]
 >> I, too, was appalled when I sat on the Budget Committee and found out that the Defense
 Department was the only department that can't get through an audit, and the point I used
 to push with the Budget Committee was, "Well, let's get started someplace."
 I mean, take a department, take a segment of a department, anything to begin to understand
 how the military spends its budget.
 Do you think that, with what they do and much of the secrecy they work under, whether it's
 legitimate or not, do you think that's ever possible?
 >> Well, I think, you know, we would have to make a concerted effort, and I have to
 tell you, the look of fear, and I'm being very honest here, the fear and the anger I
 saw in the faces of General Patrick Hughes and Admiral Wilson when we provided the information
 that I'm going to provide for you, and which was provided to these people, as well as C.I.
 Director Woolsey.
 It was palpable, because they realized that there was this very deep secret national security
 state that even they, who are supposed to be looking out after our best interests, were
 being denied access to, and when I asked the Admiral, Admiral Wilson, the head of intelligence
 joint staff, to please try to get control of this, he looked at me, he says, "My understanding
 now is that the best thing I have is a B2 stealth.
 What this secret organization has are things that can do circles around it.
 I'm outgunned."
 He also said that until the civilian leaders of the government order him to do something,
 the Secretary of Defense and the President, he can only do so much, but we couldn't get
 President Clinton to lean into this for reasons, well, I don't know if I want to even go into
 that, but it's for security reasons, safety reasons.
 So I think that this is the sort of problem you run into, and General Patrick Hughes went
 over to a shelf, now this is the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency, huge, and he
 said, "This is all I've ever gotten from the Defense Intelligence Agency chain of command
 in my inquiries into this subject," and he had a little ET doll brought at a toy store,
 and we all laughed but wanted to cry.
 So here you have a general and an admiral and a CIA director, and these people were
 not just picking my brain trying to figure out what I knew, they honestly were being
 denied access.
 How can this be?
 How can it be?
 Well, that's what I found in the hearing when I asked about how do we get to that place
 where they can go through an audit.
 It was, I mean, it was sort of a big joke, like, "Well, we're never going to be able
 to do that," so there.
 One of the reasons is this, and this is going to have to get reformed somehow, I know an
 auditor for my uncle's old company, Northrop Grumman, he said, "Basically, if you're dealing
 with one of these unacknowledged projects, they will tell you, 'Well, we have an undisclosed
 amount of money doing an undisclosed project, and you don't have a need to know,' and they
 will then just rubber-stamp what's going into Northrop Grumman, or Lockheed Martin, or Science
 Applications International Corporation, or MITRE Corporation."
 Now, I have a whole list.
 One of the sections in here that I will provide for you, and Congressman Christopher Cox,
 who later became Bush's head of the SEC, asked me to put this together for him, and it's
 a list of the facilities and corporations and sub-corporations and sub-facilities where
 this activity is going on.
 This is actionable intelligence if anyone wants to follow up on it.
 So yes, you can find out.
 We have found out, but it's something that would have to be a concerted effort under
 subpoena power by people who would not take no for an answer, and that I think the people
 deserve.
 Thank you.
 Well, this is virtually the end of this panel, and the next one is about ready to start,
 but I always have things that kind of hang in the air, because nothing we're learning
 is going to make any difference if we can't do anything about it, if we don't.
 And in 1995, the Rockefeller-funded conference in the Sylmar, my question, as you were talking
 about it, was, well, what were their goals?
 What did they accomplish?
 And did anything really happen because of that?
 And what we're doing today, this many years later, is there enough different out there
 that we can make a difference this week?
 Yes, ma'am, it's part of a process, and that meeting was a meeting to get together the
 initial governmental witnesses and to create a support group for them.
 I had grown men, old enough to be my grandfather, cry on my shoulder and say, "We've been wanting
 to talk about this our whole lives," who were astronauts, who were cosmonauts.
 I said, "Okay, let's do that," but they were afraid.
 They had signed oaths saying that they would never talk about any of this stuff, and they
 were afraid, and some of them had been in unacknowledged projects where they were told
 they would be terminated, killed, if they talked about it, and this is true.
 So it was a process, and what I wanted to have happen, in 1997, when we had the meetings
 for various members of Congress, we had hoped that members of Congress who were chair of
 committees would pick up this mantle.
 I'm still working full-time as an emergency doctor with four daughters and a golden retriever,
 and I have a life.
 I was doing this as a sort of a voluntary thing, but unfortunately, no one really wanted
 to pick this up.
 But I think that if we come together as a people, we can do it.
 Now, with this process, there's the possibility of galvanizing a larger movement, because
 I think if the people will lead, the leaders will have to follow, but we have to get the
 information that we have out.
 But I think that to the extent that you folks could influence some of your colleagues who
 are still in the Congress to take a serious interest in this, that isn't just a dog-and-pony
 show of denial and ridicule, but really drills down on the, again, actionable intelligence
 that we've put together over the last 15 years, I think that that would result to really the
 lid coming off this thing and the people knowing the truth once and for all.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 And now we're going to change panels.
 [applause]
