 We are going to get started.
 The meeting will come to order.
 I want to thank the panel for being back again.
 This is terrific having the kind of international panel we have had today, this morning, this
 afternoon.
 The fact is sometimes we only think about ourselves as opposed to what's happening in the world.
 So I appreciate you being here.
 We all appreciate you being here and thank you for your time and your patience.
 And with that, we will start with this panel.
 This is a chance for you to ask questions in depth.
 And if we are good about it, we can go two rounds.
 You'll each have 12 minutes.
 So if you take all 12 at once, that's okay.
 If you want to take six and then six later, you can do that.
 So I'll try to keep track of that or you can help me keep track of that.
 And do I have anyone that would like to start?
 I'll start.
 All right, Ms. Woolsey, Representative Woolsey.
 So my question is to each of you, if the United States becomes more transparent, releases
 files, and is more open about this situation, the United States government, would that be
 a help or a hindrance to your country and our relationships with you and why and how?
 Start down there.
 Okay.
 Well, first of all, I'd like to clarify for the record, because a lot of people have a
 misconception that all these other countries have been wonderful and released all these
 files and the U.S. has released nothing, which is totally not true.
 I mean, you yourselves have been dealing with American governments like the documents like
 the one about Peru and things like that.
 So the U.S. was actually the first country to release UFO files, just for the record,
 I want to make that.
 It doesn't mean that they've released, you know, hardware or final conclusions.
 I mean, I'm not saying they've released everything they have.
 But it was the law.
 You know, the Freedom of Information Act, as you know, had been amended as a result
 of the Watergate scandal where you could sue the government, and then it occurred to some
 people that because there had been these rumors that the CIA and other agencies had been involved
 in ufology.
 For years, the U.S. had said that only Blue Book, that's the only thing they had ever
 done about UFOs.
 So there was a famous lawsuit around 1977 against the CIA for their files on UFOs because
 there was many indications that they had done this thing called the Robertson Panel in 1953,
 a scientific conference on UFOs.
 And there was a group forum called Citizens Against UFO Secrecy back in those days.
 I know this story very well because that's when I was getting started as a journalist
 in the subject, and they sued the CIA, you know, because the law had been amended and
 now you could -- in the old days, you were at the mercy of the government, like the British
 used to be, too, until they passed the similar law where basically the government would release
 what they pleased and you had no recourse.
 But after Watergate, they amended that law.
 And so this group sued the CIA, and the CIA knew that they were going to lose the case
 because there was enough evidence about at least the Robertson Panel.
 So rather than go to court and be humiliated by a judge, they decided to, you know, cut
 their losses and they released 1,000 pages of documents.
 And that made huge front-page stories.
 I mean, it was on the New York Times, on the Washington Post.
 It was a big story at the time.
 But now there's kind of an amnesia, you know, within -- and this -- partly the UFO community
 themselves are guilty for this because it's kind of politically correct to always criticize
 the U.S. government and say that the foreign governments are great.
 Well, it's the same thing.
 I mean, the Russians, sure, have released some things.
 Have they released everything?
 No.
 And the same, you know, maybe some of the smaller countries might have released everything
 because they have less, you know, less complex programs.
 So I wanted to get that on the record on this hearing.
 And then that was followed by the FBI that released their files with -- they're currently
 in a thing called the Vault, and they're online.
 And then the Defense Intelligence Agency and everything.
 And so the U.S. government has released stuff, but there's still a lot of gaps.
 I think we definitely would be helpful for everybody that everybody releases just about
 everything, unless it was something of truly national security that would affect that country.
 But otherwise, too much secrecy doesn't help anybody.
 Good.
 Thank you very much, Mr. -- we -- I figure we've got two, four, six, eight minutes left.
 If you can kind of think in two-minute segments, I'd appreciate it.
 Ma'am, as my colleague has indicated, my understanding certainly is that the U.S. government's public
 position is that it has already disclosed its files.
 I'm not aware, given that the U.K. government is nearly complete with its process of releasing
 this material, that any further releases from America would either harm or help our U.K.
 process.
 Thank you.
 Will.
 I would agree, especially with Antonio, that I believe the Americans have sort of got bad
 rap in this deal, that basically everybody in the world is just releasing siting files.
 Everybody's releasing file files, the real files, the ones we want to see.
 So the Americans have done that.
 In fact, I believe, maybe one of the few researchers who have written on this, that the American
 government is actually leaking parts of the story, using disinformation to cover it.
 But I don't think it's really going to affect the rest of the world.
 I think everybody is waiting for the Americans.
 The Americans are running the show, and everybody's waiting for the Americans to make the first
 move.
 I think that if we can make everything public, and such a high tech is going to be shared
 by all humankind in the world, this is a very good thing.
 However, generally speaking, that through our work, and if we disclose all those UFO
 information or ET information, it's going to benefit the whole humankind.
 However, every government considers UFOs as top secrets of defense secrets, defense classification,
 and all the national security.
 If they treat the issues as UFO issues, purely UFO issues, that would be much easier.
 Otherwise, it's going to be very difficult.
 Since Europe, Russia, Latin America, the Vatican, even China, which has an open attitude, after
 all have some kind of disclosure attitude, why should the United States of America be
 different?
 There is a definite reason from an historical point of view.
 Surely as the most important world power, the United States feel a particular responsibility,
 and they surely fear that the UFO problem may cause a sort of uncontrollable reaction
 in the general public.
 So this is a possible explanation for the cover-up, for this conspiracy of silence,
 if you like.
 But I'm sure that since there is no longer the possibility to uncover all these subjects,
 the United States will be obliged in the next future to do something.
 Those consider that the world power, who will have the courage to say things as they were,
 will be considered much more than all the others.
 And probably this is not yet understood.
 And when this may happen, probably the United States may have something positive for themselves.
 Thank you very much.
 And with that, Madam Chair, I will reserve the balance of my time.
 Dr. Bartlett.
 Thank you.
 Mr. Cameron, you mentioned mental phenomenon.
 Is that related to an interest in consciousness?
 Could you explain a bit?
 Okay.
 Let me give you the examples.
 I only figured this out a year ago.
 I've known about the top-secret memo and the reference to mental phenomena.
 Later when it occurred to me what had happened, as I mentioned in my testimony, we ran across
 Dr. Eric Walker, who was the former president of Penn State University.
 And during the conversations interviewers were having with him, they were pressing him
 on MJ-12, who runs the cover-up, is it all Americans, is it more than 12 people?
 And Walker cut him off.
 This is 1991, 41 years later.
 Walker cuts him off and says, "Let me ask you a question.
 What do you know about ESP?"
 The interviewer from Britain had no idea what to say.
 Walker answered his own question.
 He said, "Look, unless you understand about ESP and how it works, you will not be taken
 in."
 He's referring to the control group.
 Very few people understand it.
 Then two years later, Ben Rich, who ran Lockheed Skunk Works, and I can remind the Congress
 that you guys funded all these operations, the U-2, the SR-71, the stealth fighter, the
 stealth bomber, the drones.
 This guy ran Lockheed Skunk Works in 1993.
 He's giving a lecture to the UCLA engineering alumni.
 And he stands up, and the last slide that he shows is a flying saucer.
 And he says, "We now have the technology to take ET home.
 We've discovered the mistake in the equation, and it's going to take an act of God to get
 this thing out of Congress because it's so deep black."
 Two of the people in the room were UFO researchers.
 They chased them out of the room, realizing this was a significant point in history.
 And they said to him, "Mr. Rich, you said you've discovered the mistake in the equation.
 What are you talking about?
 We're interested in UFO propulsion.
 How does it work?"
 And just like the Canadians in 1950, just like 1991, Eric Walker, Rich turns around
 and says to him, "Let me ask you a question.
 What do you know about ESP?"
 One guy says, "That just means everything in time and space is connected."
 He said, "That's how it works."
 Thank you.
 Mr. Pope, you mentioned air safety issues.
 With the maneuverability of these craft, do you mean that we're concerned that they would
 be hostile or they'd accidentally run into us or vice versa?
 Well, sir, it's the possibility of a collision between a commercial or military aircraft
 and whatever these UFOs might turn out to be.
 That was the concern.
 And I mentioned that there are on case file a number of near misses.
 Indeed, I believe a new case was publicized in mainstream media just two days ago.
 But there had never been a collision?
 Not in the UK, sir, no.
 And I mean, a couple of near misses that were close enough that the pilot flinched and called
 on one occasion, "Look out, look out," but no collision.
 Thank goodness, yeah.
 You mentioned electromagnetic propulsion.
 Does that include antigravity?
 I don't know, sir.
 That was it.
 You mentioned that in his report.
 You mentioned electromagnetic propulsion.
 That was in the French report about the Trans Improvance case, yes, and I think they had
 found it if they can show the slide of the Rockefeller from the briefing document.
 That was in their conclusions.
 That's the one.
 Conclusion, I probably cannot read it too well from here, but yeah, there you go.
 So this is the landing case in the farmers' field in Trans Improvance in 1981.
 Conclusion, physical phenomenon unexplained nature, high probability of electromagnetic
 mode of propulsion.
 And this is an official chart from the French Space Agency.
 So that's their conclusion.
 Also, since you had asked about the near collision, I might as well add that that's, as I explained
 in this morning's testimony, that again was one of the main reasons of the Chilean committee,
 the CEFA, to ensure air safety operations.
 That's part of their mission.
 And in their files that they have released in the radio pilot communications, they have
 also a couple of cases of near collision, which you can actually hear because they posted
 the audio tapes on their website.
 There was a case in Puerto Montt in the south of Chile in 1988 where you can literally hear
 – it's in Spanish, of course, because it's in Chile – you can literally hear the pilot
 freaking out because this object unexplained, he's called it control tower saying, "What
 is that object?
 Do you have traffic?"
 The control tower gets back to him, "No, we have no scheduled traffic."
 He said, "Well, this thing is almost about to crash with me."
 And then the people at the control tower, this object hovers near the airport, and so
 it was seen from the ground, not just by the pilots.
 Then the personnel at the airport was able to see this object hovering over the airport.
 And of course, there was not a near collision, but there was a famous similar case at the
 O'Hara airport in Chicago in 2006, I believe it was, which was quite significant, seen
 near the American Airlines terminal.
 And it only leaked out because I think it was the Chicago Tribune got wind of it.
 But the FAA never made any kind of official investigation or comment.
 So that is a problem that, regardless of what UFOs are, regardless of their origin, yes,
 it can pose a threat.
 And then General Bermudez, the head of the committee in Chile, also made another point.
 He says, "Even if it's not an immediate near collision, the pilot might get distracted
 because he's seeing something that is not supposed to be there.
 So it's maybe that he's not going to crash with the airplane, but instead of concentrating
 on flying his airplane, he's being distracted by an unknown object that is somehow getting
 near him."
 So these are among the reasons that this subject should be investigated by the civil aviation
 agencies, which of course Chile is doing, but it should be done in other countries as
 well.
 The story this morning of the pilot chasing this UFO, I think I heard that in spite of
 how big it was and how obvious it was, there was no radar track?
 I don't...
 I think that's what I remember here.
 Yeah, I'm not sure of that.
 But I might as well add, there are another very significant case which happened in Iran
 in 1976, which again was revealed by American Defense Attaché documents.
 That's how the case became public, very famous case.
 The pilot at the time was a captain, eventually became a major general in the Iranian Air
 Force.
 In fact, he came and testified at a previous symposium here at the National Press Club.
 He was the pilot that...same thing, this huge UFO object was flying over Tehran.
 This was in the days of the Shah.
 So the US had very good relations, as you know, with Iran, and that's how they got all
 the reports.
 But the difference there is that as he was instructed, again, to fire at this object
 because the object was not responding, was not identifying itself, suddenly all his weapons
 control panel was jammed and he could not fire.
 The thing wasn't working.
 The electromagnetic communication, the radio, everything was malfunction.
 This was an F-4 Phantom jet.
 And then, according to this pilot, who later became a general, he said that from the UFO,
 like a little object came, like the UFO was responding, that's as close as an actual combat
 between a UFO and it's all documented by the US government.
 There was even an evaluation by the Defense Intelligence Agency, which was later declassified,
 that call it an outstanding UFO report because it validated the existence of UFOs.
 This in the words of our own government.
 And they list all the reasons why, because it was multiple witnesses.
 Some of the witnesses were very high ranking generals.
 Two airplanes had been scrambled.
 One of them had the malfunctions.
 So this is real.
 Now, where did that UFO came from and what was its purpose?
 We don't know that.
 But that the object was real, there's no question about it.
 If it's true that these things can absorb bullets and not be affected, then somehow
 they might be able to absorb radar and have no reflection?
 Yes.
 Well, for many years, researchers in ufology have known this and it's referred as the electromagnetic
 effect.
 There are many cases involving cars.
 With airplanes, it's more worrisome because a car can stop in the middle of a close encounter
 and nothing will happen except inconvenience.
 But if you're flying an airplane and your electrical system, you know, your engine stalls,
 you're in trouble.
 But with airplanes, it's not as common, but there have been cases, although not crashes
 or perhaps.
 But I mean, I'm not right now aware of crashes.
 But with cars, it's fairly common.
 And this was referred, even in the '50s, as the electromagnetic effect.
 It is assumed that the UFO is emitting a field of energy.
 And this field of energy then will interfere with electrical systems.
 And even blackouts have been, in many cases, of power blackouts.
 Even the major blackouts, even in the United States, there were reports of UFO sightings
 near the power station where the blackout was triggered.
 There was, as a matter of fact, in Argentina, a case in 2009, which made some headlines,
 where there was a blackout in a town called Joaquin Gonzales in some province in Argentina
 right now.
 I forgot which one.
 And well, most people just, you know, had a power blackout, and then they saw this cigar-shaped
 object hovering over the city.
 But there was a reservoir with a power dam nearby.
 And one of the witnesses was fishing, because people go there for recreational fishing.
 And one of the witnesses said that he saw this disk hovering over one of the transformers,
 and there was, like, an exchange of energy between the UFO and the transformer.
 And as this energy exchange was happening, boom, there was kind of like a flash, and
 then the whole area went dark.
 So there is definitely an electromagnetic effect, but it needs to be studied more at
 depth for which we need resources to do so.
 Is there any—what are the suggestions as to what the energy source is that these craft
 use?
 Well, I'm not really an engineer, you know.
 I mean, I'm a science reporter, so I can give you a general idea.
 But they will have—I think tomorrow there was a session about technology.
 Did it happen already?
 I forgot.
 Tomorrow?
 Yeah, tomorrow.
 Tomorrow there is a session of technology, where you will have people that would be more
 qualified than me.
 There's been—I mean, all these terms, anti-gravity and things like that have been used, you know,
 but you better get a response from someone more qualified than me for the technical—for
 the real technical details.
 But I can give you just a general idea.
 Thank you very much.
 My time is up.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Congressman Cook?
 Thank you.
 I'd like to resume with Grant Cameron and talk about the Wilbert Smith files.
 Wilbert Smith was the minister of—or one of the—worked for the Ministry of Transport.
 He was a senior radio engineer, and he later became superintendent of radio regulations
 for the Department of Transport.
 Okay.
 In Canada, of course.
 Yes.
 Thank you.
 And this file on UFOs was begun about 1950, am I right?
 The official government file goes from 1950 to 1954.
 His personal files—he died in 1962—became public in about 1982.
 His son released them to the University of Ottawa.
 Okay.
 Thank you for that, because I wanted to check for sure on when he died.
 That was about 20 years before those files were released?
 Correct.
 Okay.
 You've obviously looked at what's in those released files.
 Yes.
 What is the very best evidence in those Wilbert Smith files that we've just been talking
 about?
 The very best.
 If you had to take one specific incident or example, the very best you can think of, of
 an ET association with an unidentified flying object.
 And then I'm going to ask, in fact—or let me put any kind of ET association or body-found
 association.
 Okay.
 That's the testimony I presented today.
 The best we would have is the question that Wilbur, in his files, asked to Dr. Robert
 Saubacher in Washington in 1950 about the validity of the Crash Saucer book released
 in 1950, and he gets the response.
 The facts in the book are substantially correct.
 Now, Wilbur had a lot of interaction.
 There was contacts.
 They were in contact with an alien, the same one that the CIA was in contact with.
 There's a lot of stuff happening behind the scenes.
 But in terms of an actual document, in terms of the actual material that's the hardest
 evidence is the material that he got from the Americans in 1950, which he used to write
 the top-secret memo, which he sent to the Deputy Minister of the Department of Transport
 asking for funds to research propulsion, of UFO propulsion.
 And he was given authorization, and that project ran until 1954 when this overflight of the
 Flying Saucer Station took place, and they shut the program down and made the statement.
 There's nothing to it.
 No equity.
 But the document—in other words, the best evidence of a body found is what was spoken
 between Dr. Saubacher and Wilbert Smith.
 Is that what I'm understanding?
 And is that in one of those documents that was released?
 Well, it's in the—I released to you today Smith's handwritten interview of the interview
 that he did in 1950, and it's later substantiated by Robert Saubacher, who says there were reports
 of instruments or people operating these machines, because he was questioned after Wilbur Smith
 died.
 People like Stanton Friedman started looking for him, and he says, "I remember in talking
 with some of the people in the office that they got the impression that these aliens
 were constructed."
 And he talks about what the aliens looked like.
 And he mentions in the room where von Braun, Oppenheimer, a number of the top scientists
 in the United States in 1950 were telling these stories.
 So Saubacher confirms the fact that he talked to Smith in 1950, and that he confirms in
 the letter that there were alien bodies involved.
 I appreciate your answer, and that's—what you've just described is what you feel is
 the best evidence of the question I asked.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Fine.
 Okay.
 To Nick Pope, I'd like to ask you, while you were working in the Ministry of Defense
 in the UK, did any of your superiors tell you that part of your job is to ridicule English
 citizens or any UK citizen who had maybe filed a report or a siding that was legitimate?
 Nobody told me to do that directly, sir, but there was certainly a sort of unofficial policy
 that in responding to media inquiries, the press office would deliberately slip in terms
 such as little green men and flying saucers to disparage and downplay the subject.
 And they haven't told you what to say as a private citizen, have they?
 No, sir, but when I've written books, which I have in the past, I've had to submit those
 for official security clearance.
 Okay.
 Now I'd like to turn to our witness from the People's Republic of China.
 Dr. Sheila, you've said what I think are truly interesting things when you say that the majority
 of the people of China absolutely believe not just in UFOs, but in an extraterrestrial
 source of the UFOs, and they believe in aliens.
 In fact, you made a statement earlier in your testimony that you put the existence of aliens
 right in with UFOs as something that's clearly – well, certainly you believe it.
 I understand that.
 And you talked about five events of what you call third kind cases, and I'll repeat those
 from your testimony a few hours ago.
 The Phoenix Mountain event – I want you to listen to these events carefully.
 You know them well, I'm sure.
 The Phoenix Mountain event, the Faxiang trapeze event, the Beijing Sokong event, the River
 Forest event, the Mayang alien research station event.
 Of those, I take it those are maybe some of the top five of all that China has gathered,
 which has been amazingly voluminous.
 Give us an example from one or two, if you'd like, and I want to know the best thing you
 can tell us from any of those events you've already mentioned that would give us some
 sense that there's an extraterrestrial origin to these sightings and to these UFOs, or that
 there are bodies, or aliens, alive or dead from these.
 Okay?
 Yes.
 I would like to talk about two, the first one and the last one.
 The first one is the Phoenix Mountain event.
 This is in the northeastern China, there is a farm there, and a ranger saw a flying disk
 within 100 meters, and he felt really uncomfortable, so he tried to stay away from that flying
 disk, and he and his cousin felt that.
 I hate to interrupt, but could you give us the year of this, or the time, the essential
 time?
 Approximately.
 1994.
 In June 1994.
 Go ahead.
 Continue, please.
 So, on the second day, this ranger led a dozen of people from the same farm trying to find
 that flying disk again.
 And what happened was that there was a lightning coming from the sky, and he was attacked by
 this lightning right on his head.
 So, he fainted, and during the time that he was out, he felt that aliens were communicating
 with him.
 He had a lot of physical reactions, and he claimed that aliens had implanted some objects
 into his body.
 And after that, this alien also had sexual contact with him.
 And after that, he was told that this sexual contact is a very --
 Anything you can refer to that would show something that could make the Chinese government
 or any other government aware of any of this, to make this story so far, which is a pretty
 significant story, of course, but to make it accepted by -- does the Chinese government
 know about this story?
 Let me put it that way.
 Have they commented on it, and what evidence has been given to them about the story you
 just outlined?
 Well, we have a lot of evidence in this event.
 We have gathered more than 100 people and conducted more than a dozen of investigations.
 We have used lie detectors to test and verify the truthfulness of the things that these
 people are claiming.
 So we have gathered information, and we have done investigation in this area.
 And so in this incident, we have seen this very special interaction between aliens and
 humans.
 Would you say, then, that Phoenix Mountain would be your prime case, rather than, say,
 the Beijing Zoukong event, in terms of the question I asked, which is your best evidence
 of extraterrestrial involvement, or an alien, which you've certainly described -- you've
 described aliens with more activities than anybody else has described them in the three
 or four days here.
 And so I just want to know to what extent the Chinese government is really aware or
 believes it, or -- and that doesn't necessarily prove it one way or the other, by any means,
 but I just want to know where documentation can be, where we can start working on this
 case, because it's kind of an interesting one, very interesting one.
 Right, the Chinese government, I think they know, because this incident was very, very
 hotly spread within the country.
 Everybody knows.
 It's very popular.
 It was reported everywhere.
 But after more than 10 years of research and investigation and verification, as well as
 evidence collection, which included the tracks that the UFOs have left in the mountains,
 and the trees and the plants that were destructed by their landing, we have gathered all those
 evidence.
 And we have also brought a scientist to --
 I understand.
 I appreciate it.
 Thank you for your testimony.
 I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 We're down to you, Representative -- yes, not -- I'm sorry, Senator Gravel.
 I would like to address -- first of all, I have a question for all of you, but following
 on, a colleague was just saying, what is the reaction of your government towards the transparency
 of this whole subject?
 As we know, the U.S. is very deficient, and probably the highest standard we've run across
 thus far is Uruguay, where it's so transparent that they even go to the effort to educate
 people in school with Air Force personnel.
 In China, is the government transparent about this?
 Is there an official position in that regard?
 What's your government position?
 Okay.
 Let me begin first, then.
 Our government, my government, in a lot of international conferences, a lot of media
 workers have asked me about these questions.
 Okay.
 My answer is this.
 This is to be open and to be objective and be pragmatic.
 And another thing is that being cautious, that is very -- this is a very -- the position
 is that to be cautious, where the reason that we need to open up is because China is going
 through the opening up and transparent.
 So under this kind of circumstance, we can talk about this.
 And also, the government is not very strict about keeping everything secret.
 For example, in the Air Force, that they have the combat with the UFO, and that we have
 interview on all those of the stories, and they told us truthfully of their encounter.
 And sometimes the militaries, when they don't understand of some certain situations, they
 even come to us, they consult us.
 So we will try to relay some of the information on UFO to them.
 And, however, we still be very cautious and vigilant as well.
 They don't want to take a non-scientific way of approach of studying UFO.
 They don't want to mix with anything that is not scientific.
 So they don't want any distractions.
 If only a purely a UFO incident or an ET incident, and the government will not interfere with
 any investigation, that would give us a more lax situation.
 That's commendable on the part of your government.
 I just have one general question, and I apologize for excusing myself earlier.
 Is anybody familiar with Dr. Wood, a woman, PhD on directed energy?
 She has written extensively about the use of directed energy to bring down the Twin
 Towers on 9/11.
 Are any of you, or maybe this is a question for the scientific panel tomorrow, or certainly
 my colleague here, but has any of you run across the issue of directed energy with respect
 to the UFO or the energy that obviously they possess that we don't understand for propulsion?
 And I would start with my colleague from Italy.
 A consideration may be done in the case of unidentified submerged objects.
 As far as we know, when they are in the hydrosphere, these objects, well, they do not are in direct
 contact with the water.
 It seems that they are covered by a sort of pillow of energy.
 And this prevents any contact with the shell, you understand, with the hull.
 And probably what Antonio Neus said before is to be connected with this.
 It's the same kind probably of propulsion mean, a sort of electromagnetic propulsion
 which permits these objects to move in any kind of environment, deep space without any
 kind of atmosphere, like our astronauts said.
 Any kind of atmosphere, ours or any other planet's.
 And of course, also a more dense environment like water.
 So as far as we know, probably there is a definite pattern in all this, in the possibility
 of an electromagnetic and anti-gravity system.
 Frankly, we still have to learn a lot about this.
 Thank you.
 Any other comments on that?
 Senator, yes, and with apologies for not having printed this off for the committee, but it
 was 468 pages, I can supply a hyperlink.
 We accept that apology.
 Though the Ministry of Defence were talking about the possibility that some UFOs were
 exotic plasmas, three sentences might be directly relevant to your question from Project Condine's
 final report.
 It says, "There is evidence from openly published scientific papers that scientists in the former
 Soviet Union have taken a particular interest in UFO phenomena.
 They have identified the close connection with plasma technologies and are pursuing
 related technologies for potential military purposes.
 For example, very high-power energy generation, RF weapons, impulse radars, air vehicle drag
 and radar signature reduction or control, and possibly for radar-reflecting decoys."
 Antonio, please.
 Yes, Senator.
 I just wanted to add that one of the first people that looked at the propulsion systems
 of UFOs was one of the most qualified persons because it was Professor Hermann Oberth, who
 was one of the fathers of the Space Age.
 As you know, the Space Age has three fathers, Tsiolkovsky in Russia, Robert Goddard in the
 United States, and Oberth in Germany.
 He was the mentor of von Braun, and he later worked for us too, like many of the German
 scientists from Operation Paperclip and that whole episode.
 But Oberth in the '50s became very interested in ufology, so one of the guys that invented
 rocket.
 He wrote the classic book about the rocket into interplanetary space.
 This was published in German in 1922, a long time before the Nazis, and so it was a brilliant
 man.
 I'm honored that I met him when he was like something like 96 years old.
 I didn't speak German, so I cannot say that I interviewed him, but at least I had the
 pleasure of meeting one of the fathers of the Space Age.
 I had to go to his house near Nuremberg.
 But he had wrote some papers, some articles, and obviously he was eminently qualified.
 The technical things I would have to look in my notes, so I don't want to speculate.
 One of the things he had to say, though, is because of the maneuverability, the change
 of course and 90-degree changes, turns, and things like that, the pilots or whoever beings
 were inside these objects had to be shielded from the rest of it, otherwise they would
 be crushed to death, he said.
 These were some papers he wrote in the 1950s.
 Actually in the Rockefeller briefing document that I co-authored, in the quotation section
 we do have some key quotes from Herman Oberth, but if you're interested I can get you some
 other articles that he published about this subject.
 There's another American scientist who used to work for NASA, Paul Hill, I believe was
 his name, who wrote a book after his death, I think his daughter had found these notes
 or whatever, and it was called "Conventional Flying Objects."
 That's a pretty serious, sober, highly technical discussion of propulsion.
 So there's been many people that, well, not many, but there've been a few qualified people.
 There are some other not qualified, I would disregard those, but at least there are a
 few.
 There was another German who used a pseudonym, Ross Sigma, who wrote and published a book
 called "Ether Technologies."
 That was not his real name.
 I think his real name was Schneider Franken or something like that.
 I think he had maybe worked in Penemunde also, Gordon Cooper, the astronaut Gordon Cooper
 knew him.
 Gordon Cooper was very, very much interested in the UFO phenomenon.
 So yeah, there are several leads, although I'm sure that there are plenty more, but that
 would be classified.
 Great.
 Thank you very much.
 Madam Chairman, I reserve the time or share the time with anybody who wants to use it.
 Congresswoman Kilpatrick.
 Thank you, Madam Chair.
 I was happy to hear in this afternoon's session after three and a half days being here that
 Mr. Juneyus, Pope, and Cameron did say the U.S. has participated a bit.
 I've been led to believe up until an hour ago that we hadn't done anything and that
 we were the big bear in the room.
 So I'm glad to hear that you acknowledge that we've done something.
 Yes, absolutely.
 You further went on to say the CIA was sued and released theirs in 1977.
 I think you said that, Mr. Juneyus, which is good.
 I don't want you...
 Yeah.
 There's a little editorial right here, that's all.
 Then the FBI did file a suit later and released it.
 I think, Mr. Cameron, you said, yeah, they released it.
 They're sitting files, but not the real thing.
 I think my question on all of that, releasing of the files, and I'm glad they did it, ordered
 by the court or otherwise, and that you all acknowledge that.
 It's good for our country to know that, for us here on the panel, for sure.
 Did they acknowledge, do they believe that UFOs are real or not?
 Did they address after releasing the files, or they just gave you paper and you had to
 shift through them?
 I know we didn't get to meet one again, but did they say one way or the other, whether
 UFOs are real or that extraterrestrial is a real phenomenon?
 Well, I mean, the problem is that the files they released are sort of the mundane files,
 like grants at the siting files, or they're very old, historical files.
 Siting files means that they cited something somewhere.
 Correct, but what we would want to see is some kind of conclusion, and those kind of
 documents seem to be-
 They were not included.
 Yeah.
 I mean, there are some conclusions, for instance, in the Condon Report, which was this famous
 project by the University of Colorado, but that was distorted, too, because they wanted
 to close Blue Book.
 Now, some of the case histories in the Condon Report are valid, and actually about 30 percent
 of the case histories in the Condon Report are unexplained.
 That's how much you will find in the U.S. files, that there are a certain percentage
 of cases that are unexplained.
 So how would you sum what they've released, and do you know of a U.S. ... Can we conclude
 a position from our government on this issue, based on what they've released with CIA or
 FBI?
 Yes.
 The truth is, it's confusing.
 I mean, some people, like there is Colonel John Alexander.
 He was involved in some study at the Pentagon in the 1980s.
 So this would have been much, much later, when there wasn't Blue Book, all that was
 old history, and he claims it was not a formal project in the sense that they had to issue
 reports and things, but it was obviously tolerated by his superiors, and they went around and
 they briefed a number of people, including high-level people, like admirals and generals
 and General Abramson, the head of the Star Wars SDI project, and people like that, very
 high-level people.
 And he wrote a book about this, so I'm not revealing anything that is unknown.
 So they would brief these people, because this group of scientists that all had clearances
 and were working within the Pentagon on the military-industrial complex, would brief these
 generals and staff, because they thought that there was some kind of big project going on,
 according to Alexander.
 And then what would happen, if you read his book, is that most of these generals or admirals
 say, "No, we don't have anything.
 I mean, we have no project."
 So that was the official record, but he tells in his book some anecdotes that then after
 the official meeting was over, then the admiral will come and whisper to him, "But let me
 tell you about my sighting."
 So this is the kind of stuff you encounter.
 That's kind of soft, but there was something.
 There was something.
 It was something.
 Okay.
 Yes.
 Mr. Cameron, thank you very much, Mr. Honest.
 You said, Mr. Cameron, that we were waiting for America to make the first move.
 What move would that be?
 What do you speak when you say that?
 The move to disclosure, to identifying the fact that it's an ET phenomena or whatever
 it is, I have heard stories from other governments, sort of off the record, they were asked, "Will
 you disclose?"
 And they said, "As soon as the Americans disclose, we'll be a close second."
 I've heard stories like that.
 That's where I think the American sort of, especially when it comes to NATO, if you take
 a look at the NATO thing, America is basically the main thing in NATO.
 Everybody sort of takes their lead.
 They have a lot of power.
 I think it's the same thing in this field that ...
 So the world is waiting for the US to say yay or nay on UFOs?
 Or set the policy or determine ...
 Or set the policy?
 Set ... Well, the policy is basically sort of being set by the Americans.
 I thought the Americans hadn't done much on it.
 Well, I mean, as I say, I think they've disclosed stuff.
 They have ... I mean, and they have disclosed a lot of documents.
 I mean, if you get to documents ...
 You said that.
 The United States Library has disclosed thousands of pages of documents.
 And so, I mean, there are documents.
 It's the official conclusions.
 It's the official ...
 There are no conclusions from the documents.
 Yeah, like the real top secret documents you won't find no matter what country you go to.
 And our country has not concluded ...
 It's still on the position that there's nothing to it.
 And every other government, I think, goes by that and takes the same position.
 That is a position.
 If you said they've released the files under court order, CIA and FBI ...
 Under FOIA.
 There's a lot under FOIA.
 Under FOIA.
 Okay.
 And they also sued them.
 It's, you know, 1977.
 Yeah.
 So, they have concluded.
 They released some, and they've concluded there is none.
 That's their official conclusion.
 Yeah.
 All right.
 Okay.
 That's good.
 Dr. Shelley, I'd like to spend the rest of my time with you just a bit before I yield
 back.
 Tell me about the Chinese UFO Federation.
 Is it an NGO unrelated to the government?
 What is its mission?
 Yes.
 It is an NGO.
 This is a private NGO.
 What is the work of the federation?
 Our mission is that in the field of UFO, we conduct scientific research, and in recent
 years, what the senator has asked, we have conducted many scientific research.
 To give you an example, that I have in the conference, in the Marino, there was a general
 cursor, a colonel cursor.
 He is also a very famous expert on the Roswell case, and he worked in the Department of Defense
 Pentagon.
 And after, he said that he embraced me and hugged me, and then he gave me a book on the
 Roswell, and he says that for Professor Sun, my greatest friend, I believe that a person
 like you will help everybody to create a new world.
 This was from a former Patagon official who was so excited after learning about our scientific
 research results.
 Now, we have a technology to turn water into anything, into fuel, into food, turning stone
 into food and into food.
 We are researching on these new technologies.
 We have many new things, new scientific research like this.
 We're now trying to find where aliens come from so that we can be inspired by them in
 the scientific area.
 But when saying that, we do have some scientific research and results in some particular areas
 already.
 So why did I say that we all have this nature to find our roots?
 I think that's in our DNA.
 The other one that you are very much involved in is the China UFO Research Institute established
 in 1980.
 What is it?
 How does it work?
 What is its mission?
 Yes, the mission for this institute is to explore UFO issues scientifically.
 We go to conferences and we also are interviewed constantly by international as well as domestic
 media.
 As I mentioned, the AP, CNN, BBC, this institute has been interviewed by all these media.
 And personally, I have been interviewed many, many times too.
 So actually, there are two faults.
 People who are engaged in these institutes, first, they are personally very interested
 in this topic.
 And also we have experts who are experts in areas such as how to make airplanes and astronomy
 and science.
 These experts use their expertise to do research.
 That is why this institute has been commended by the society.
 Originally, some people think that this is just for chit chat, but we have elevated this
 topic, this issue, onto a higher level where we talk about how learning about UFOs, learning
 about aliens, can help us solve environmental problems and health problems.
 And is the Federation or the institute located in any other countries outside of China?
 Do you have branches anywhere else in the world?
 Yes, we do have branches outside of China.
 And other places, and they are not necessarily called an institute or a federation.
 They are called maybe called a UFO club or association.
 So through these branches, we can collaborate.
 In fact, we are interacting with aliens already.
 They carry on the missions of both of the federation and of the institute.
 Question?
 Yes, they do.
 They carry on the programs.
 Right.
 Similar.
 Particularly, we have a World Chinese UFO federation.
 I'm the chairman for that federation.
 So how are the institute and the federation funded?
 How do you operate?
 I've got a minute left and you've got it.
 How are you?
 How do you carry on your program?
 How are you funded?
 Well, about funding, we are purely a private NGO.
 So well, the government is very busy.
 They don't have time to take care of us.
 So well, symbolically, they give us very little funding.
 So I have a very, very tough job.
 Because I have to think about how this federation and how this institute can survive.
 I have to find the funding.
 Some scientists and inventors have to prove that their research is viable, and that's
 my job.
 I have to let people know that what we're doing is viable so that we can find enough
 funding.
 I know that it's very difficult.
 I'd like to know if any of you could tell us, the panel, whether in any of the disclosures
 you're aware of from government entities or from non-government, well, it would have to
 be government entities, obviously, or from the United States.
 It doesn't have to be your government, your country, any government, where gun, camera,
 footage, or files on analysis of materials have ever been released.
 Go ahead, Mr. Pope.
 The United Kingdom certainly did have some cases where military jets were sent up to
 intercept UFOs being tracked on radars.
 Similar to the Peru incident that we talked about this morning.
 Correct, sir.
 Okay, go ahead.
 If some gun, camera, footage was taken, and certainly I'm aware of on-the-record testimony
 from former MOD officials saying they've seen it, to the best of my knowledge, none of that
 material has survived, and I've not seen it personally, but it certainly existed at
 MOD.
 So it's not released, but you know it exists?
 It existed.
 I believe it's lost or destroyed.
 Okay.
 Can I ask this final, if I have 30 seconds, is anybody aware of a, well let me get this
 question in please, anybody, is anybody aware of a military person or a contractor for the
 military that's been released from a secrecy oath that they might have taken on the subject
 of UFOs from any country, again, your own or the U.S. or any other country?
 In the case of Italy, we had in San Marino in 2000, the chief of the Reparto Generale
 Sicurezza of the Italian Air Force who came in uniform to have a presentation of the UFO
 data, of the official UFO data, in the San Marino Congress.
 This man today is retired and would have been here if possible.
 He did not come because he told me he signed a sort of security statement for 20 years
 not to speak on these subjects, even if, after all, what he said in San Marino in 2000 is
 open, and this is curious.
 Anybody else?
 I can give you just a quick example I mentioned, I think, in my testimony.
 Dick DiMatto, who worked for Senator Byrd, was given authorization to go to Area 51 to
 see if they're spending money on flying saucers and Aurora and all this kind of stuff.
 He met with Alfred O'Donnell.
 He offered him complete clearance from any sort of security oaths he had taken, and O'Donnell
 refused to talk.
 But Dick DiMatto did make that offer.
 So there's been an offer?
 There was an offer.
 He refused to talk.
 We're out of time.
 Thank you.
 We're out of time.
 Thank you.
 I have a couple of quick questions, hopefully.
 Anyone can answer.
 I'd like to hear from all of you if we can do it in a short period of time.
 What are the practical steps that we can do to take this issue forward, and is an international
 cooperative like the United Nations a possibility?
 Yes, there is a possibility.
 You know that the Grenada resolution was simply frozen, and any member state of the United
 States could take this resolution and to put it into the agenda.
 Then we will have a vote from the United Nations, and we will see if by case this commission,
 permanent commission for UFOs in the United Nations, may be created or not.
 Personally, I tried to do something with the San Marino Republic, which is a member state
 of the United Nations, but frankly, I had some problems.
 We had some problems, because the first question they asked me is, "Okay, but what do you think
 the United States government may think about this?"
 I have nothing else to say.
 Okay.
 Antonio?
 The UN, of course, would be excellent in my conversations with the different heads of
 the South American agencies.
 They're eager, because they feel that they have these programs, which most of them have
 started recently, except Uruguay, who were the pioneers, but they have nowhere to report,
 so I mean, officially.
 Some place where the data could begin to be officially and legally marshalled in one single
 place, so that would be a step that would be excellent.
 But the problem of the UN, it has to be a member state has to bring it up.
 In the case of Granada, Prime Minister Gary was almost obsessed with the subject, so he
 had a mission, and he pursued it, as we know, for many years, until he was overthrown, because
 he wasn't taking care of the business in his own country.
 He was spending so much time in New York that he was disregarding, even though he was the
 founding father of that island.
 Then, I don't know, it would be nice to have congressional hearings, but I appreciate your
 work here greatly, but with people who are currently in Congress, because then the oath,
 and then you could really bring officials, and by subpoena if necessary, and really try
 to get to the bottom of this.
 There's so much allegations and rumours, and probably half of those are false, and maybe
 the US government is getting a bad rep, but it's partly their own fault, because of so
 much secrecy, and we could, what is really happening in Area 51, have we incorporated
 some of this technology into weapons?
 There's all these kinds of allegations, but because we're dealing with classified areas,
 it's impossible to know, and so that would be another step.
 If the other countries of the world saw that there were hearings in the US and stuff like
 that, probably they would do the same, then it would give cover to a lot of other countries,
 even though many countries, as you know, are trying and are releasing files, and in South
 America especially, they're creating agencies.
 Those would be two good steps, and they're probably others too.
 Thank you.
 Mr. Pope?
 The head of the United Nations Office of Outer Space Affairs attended a Royal Society discussion
 meeting in the UK in 2010.
 Now, I hasten to add that was an astrobiology meeting, and not a UFO meeting, but it did
 discuss in a speculative way some of the issues that might arise, be they religious, scientific,
 and technical, societal, if we did detect extraterrestrial life or even another civilization,
 but she said that when it comes to the role of the UN, one must approach the UN with consensus
 on this sort of issue, so I don't think there's much practical hope of that.
 On regard to your other question about practical steps that could be taken, I think one meaningful
 step would be to incorporate whatever you believe about UFOs, some module into pilot
 training, because whatever the government says or does about UFOs, civil and military
 pilots, do continue to see these things.
 Great idea.
 Thank you.
 Mr. Cameron?
 I would agree with an international United Nations type thing.
 I don't think congressional will help, because it doesn't help anybody, it doesn't help you
 to get elected, which is what it's all about.
 In terms of this week, I think we're no different than any other social or political movement,
 no matter how important we think we are, and when the time is right, it'll happen, and
 we have to keep making moves, and I think the move we've made this week to do this is
 a step ahead, so we are making steps.
 And it's like the women's right to vote, it started in 1848, they didn't get the right
 to vote until 1920, and even then their problems weren't solved.
 We're no different.
 We've got to make moves, we've got to put pressure on, that's how I think it's going
 to happen.
 Thank you.
 Dr. Shelley?
 Yes.
 I've talked about, I'm trying to facilitate a summit meeting to talk about UFO and the
 universe, and universal exploration, and not only that, and we have, as a humankind, we've
 encountered many problems, probably in this summit, we'll be able to solve some of the
 difficulties.
 Now, we are trying to cohere the strength of all of the world.
 Now, I'm trying to form a committee of the thinkers of our world, and try to gather all
 the intellectuals around the world together, and also that we should come to a conclusion
 on all the cases, and a few years ago, some experts, that some of the people that advised
 that Senator Goldwater, whether he could conduct investigation or promote investigation of
 the Area 51, he did not believe about this Area 51, and I was very honored he invited
 me.
 So, we had a small group formed, and Senator Goldwater was a chair, and it was a co-chair,
 and then, regretfully, he was quite old at the time, and he went to the hospital, so
 he asked his secretary to apologize for me, for the success of this forming a group, so
 you can see that for such a prestigious person to be involved in the investigation, if we
 can get somebody like that, we will come to a fruitful conclusion.
 This is a very major event.
 If, after the investigation, and we come to a conclusion that there is no UFO or ET, then
 that's fine, but if we can verify there is actually UFO and ET, that's great.
 Mr. Pinotti, you already gave your answer to this one, didn't you?
 Excuse me?
 Did you give your answer to this question?
 Yes.
 I think you did, yeah.
 You started.
 The problem of interacting on international level, and having the possibility to bring
 this argument to the attention of United Nations and so on, is a big one.
 I think that, probably, little nations may be more interested.
 Big nations may have big problems.
 In fact, as I told you before, I tried to move something with the Little Republic of
 San Marino, since this could be extremely simple.
 But there are problems, because you see, for instance, in Italy, even if we have an official
 UFO group in the Italian Air Force, we have the facts, but we have no study, in the sense
 that our military say, we are all involved in defense.
 That's all.
 We don't like to draw any conclusion.
 If we still have this attitude at the political level, everywhere, we will not be able to
 do anything.
 I think that we must change our mentality, our way of thinking.
 We should be aware of the fact that we are facing something absolutely new and absolutely
 real and absolutely from outside.
 Don't remember that the first UFO sightings occurred in Europe, and particularly in Italy,
 in the '30s.
 They were advanced, intelligent, piloted crafts.
 They were studied by the fascist government.
 We knew this up to some years ago.
 But if this is true, and this is true, this means that these objects do not come from
 the Earth.
 They come from outside the Earth.
 And if this is true, we should be aware that we are facing an historical argument.
 We are still discussing, and from a sociological point of view, I think that we are not too
 different from the Carbocult people who spoke in the Pacific after World War II about the
 passing airplanes, and that they thought they were some kind of divine means and so on.
 Apart from this, we do not know the origin of this intelligence and of these crafts,
 but what is sure that we are sufficiently lucky that this intelligence are not hostile,
 and this is not too much, frankly.
 What we should do, I think, is just to be aware of this and to try to understand more,
 but all together.
 Otherwise, if we still continue to be separated state by state, we won't do any conclusion.
 Thank you very much.
 Senator Gravel, you have three minutes left.
 Thank you, Madam Chairman.
 Going along with your recommendations, I had suggested earlier that, and I think Mr. Cameron
 has shared that same view, is that another hearing, whether it's like this one or whether
 it's in the Congress, probably won't advance our goals all that much.
 But there's no reason why, with the various countries represented here, with the various
 scholars and military officers, that we would try to, within our own communities, to get
 them to endorse a resolution, a very simple, straightforward resolution, calling upon the
 General Assembly, not get waylaid to the Security Council, because that's a dead letter also,
 but to take the matter to the General Assembly, all we would need is one country.
 But I think that we have several countries from South America, and certainly this group
 here might have enough influence to get their government to go on record and to field a
 resolution creating an agency of the United Nations without a lot of powers defined, but
 specifically with the goal to organize a global conference, not a hearing, a global conference
 of the scholars and scientists and whoever that would come together, and to fund it both
 from public and private sources, so that within a couple of years we could convene a conference
 that would command the attention of the world.
 I have no doubt, and I at one point in my career was a delegate to the United Nations
 from the Senate for four months, and I have no doubt that we could field that kind of
 a resolution and get it adopted, and then it would be the responsibility, or that would
 be the aegis of it all that would carry it forward, and then we could all have something
 now to hang our hats on.
 Right now we're hanging our hat on the fine work that has been putting together this particular
 conference, but we can elevate it one notch higher, and not one notch higher, I mean we
 can elevate it right to where it really belongs, because it's a global issue, we could elevate
 it right to the General Assembly of the United Nations.
 I have a draft that Danny was kind enough that Antonio, we're preparing, I'll draft
 something based upon their work, try to get it done by tomorrow, and be very simple.
 I mean it's not going to be controversial, we've already talked about it, or I've raised
 it with my colleagues, and this is a given, you know, so we'll have something that not
 only the various members who have testified, members on our side of the table, and various
 members of the public may want to sign a petition adjoining this effort, and then hope that
 an organization, either the organization that did this, or I've talked a little bit with
 some others that have an organization that might want to take this up and follow through,
 raise the money to just get it, help get it to the New York, at probably the next session
 that could treat this would be next October, next September, next October, so, and I certainly
 myself would be happy to travel to New York and try to lobby for that, but it would take,
 we need a country to do it, and so it's up to you to see where you have the influence
 within your country to, and all we need is one, all we need is one, and that would be
 the sponsor, and I'm sure once you got one country with a sponsor, several other countries
 would follow suit and join on to it, so we could have a bevy of countries, and I think
 just to end on this time, I would guarantee that it would pass, because there's a lot
 of resentment in the General Assembly with respect to the conduct of the Security Council
 in a lot of other affairs.
 I want to thank our panel today, you have been here, and appreciate your time and your
 effort and your willingness to speak up, and with that, we are adjourned.
, thank you.
