 If you prefer sitting is fine and just repeat after me.
 I do hereby affirm.
 I do hereby affirm.
 That I will tell the truth.
 That I will tell the truth.
 And nothing but the truth.
 And nothing but the truth.
 To this committee today.
 Thank you, sir.
 Mr. Chair, I believe we're ready to begin.
 We're reconvening the hearing and we have a new witness and we're going to start questioning
 from going this direction, taking testimony.
 Since we've heard testimony from the other individuals, I think we might open it up between
 a Q&A between the members and yourselves because I think it generates focused information for
 the hearing.
 And not necessarily because we're so bright but it's because the combination, the synergy
 of the two can be very effective.
 Colonel French, did we have testimony from you the other day or is this the first time
 you have appeared?
 No, this is my second appearance.
 That's what I thought.
 I thought I remembered you and I was impressed the last time.
 Colonel French, the floor is yours and give us testimony.
 I am Lieutenant Colonel Richard French, United States Air Force retired.
 I'm also a PhD.
 I was assigned to the 614th Tactical Fighter Squadron in Alexandria, Louisiana at England
 Air Force Base.
 I was sent to Alamogordo, New Mexico to accomplish my annual refresher course in the altitude
 chamber.
 While there I learned of an accident a few miles away from Alamogordo in the direction
 of the White Sands, a short time later I witnessed the takeoff of a prototype of a fighter aircraft
 that I either recognized or knew, had no idea what it was.
 Anyway the aircraft took off at a very high rate of speed and fired a rocket.
 The rocket was basically five inches in diameter and about six feet long, about the same size
 as some of the modern anti-aircraft aerial rockets, I mean air-to-air aerial rockets.
 Afterward I was asked to review some of the items that were picked up from the crash site.
 There was no unknown, there was an unknown number of humanoids either killed or injured.
 The parts of the casualties were taken to base operations at Holloman Air Force Base.
 The only parts of the craft that I was allowed to see had markings that appeared to be Arabic
 or some language I didn't understand.
 Later I learned the parts and the casualties were transported to Wright Patterson Air Force
 Base and turned over the Foreign Technology Division under which is run by Colonel Paul
 Sleeper. Because I had left the Office of Special Investigations, I did not do any kind
 of formal report as I had been reassigned to the Pacific Air Forces at Tongnyeongchon,
 which is in Korea. For that reason, I went out of the business.
 I have quite an experience of seeing UFOs. The reason for that, very simply, is this.
 When I was originally in the OSI, the very first of it, there are very common appearance
 at a place called Gulf Breeze, Florida. Is that familiar to you, that location? The reason
 I say that is on virtually any evening you can go out there and you'll see them come
 in and land or take off. We used to report that what they were were swamp gas, very frankly.
 It was one of those things. Of course it was a lie, but I was required to lie. That concludes
 my statement.
 Thank you. We'll proceed into, unless there's any of the others that want to give quick
 testimony because we've already heard your warns, we'll proceed to a Q&A and to a dialogue.
 Unless there's anybody that has something that's burning in their heart that they want
 to tell, or can we engage in a dialogue? We'll start with the congressman from Utah, please.
 Ten minutes, Mr. Chair. We'll have ten minutes.
 We'll have ten minutes? Don't tell them ten minutes. They'll take ten.
 That'll take us to five o'clock.
 Colonel French, this is really something that you've just said here that's very important.
 It's highly significant. I hadn't known until I read this and listened to you just now exactly
 what you are saying. I'm going to ask you just some specific questions. I want to start
 by saying I commend you for all the service you've given our country in uniform and for
 the things you've done that way. This is such a significant statement that I'm going to
 ask some rather specific questions if that's all right. Can you remember about when in
 the late '60s this event occurred? As close as you can. I mean, that's fine. It was just
 late '60s. If you know something a little more I'd be most interested.
 Well about when was it that you said it had to do with training in the late '60s that
 you were sent to Alamogordo?
 Yeah.
 Okay, that's good enough. You learned of the accident a few miles away from Alamogordo.
 When did you learn of that accident? I mean, was it right at the time of the accident or
 was it later? Give me a little time frame here.
 Well, it was within a matter of hours.
 Oh, the same day.
 Yeah, oh yes.
 Okay, I just want to make sure I understood that. Because I would fix this to say the
 same day. That's significant. Okay, you witnessed the takeoff of the prototype to the fighter
 aircraft that actually engaged that unidentified object that was flying up there.
 Yes.
 Afterwards, you were asked to review some of the items. Now, this is the afterwards
 I'm really interested in. When afterwards were you asked to review some of the items
 that were picked up from the crash site?
 Ones that I've been told about.
 Oh, just a minute. Well, this statement, it says a short time later, I witnessed -- no,
 no, no, excuse me. Afterwards, I was asked to review some of the items that were picked
 up from the crash site. There were an unknown number of humanoids, either killed or injured.
 Did you see those?
 No, I didn't see them. I said that I was told about them.
 Oh, okay. Okay, and I understand that. And that's just fine. I just want to know exactly
 what happened here. The way this reads, I was wondering if you might have seen them
 yourself.
 No.
 You did not?
 As I said, I had seen a lot of UFOs under other circumstances, but not at that time.
 No, that doesn't apply.
 Okay, you reviewed items. And what were the items that you reviewed that were picked up
 that made you believe -- well, explain then how -- well, how did you hear about the humanoids?
 Let me ask it that way.
 I was told that that was what was found.
 By who?
 People who were there.
 The --
 Air Force people?
 Yeah, well, there were people who were enlisted people and various people who were there standing
 on the ramp.
 Oh, that were picking up --
 No, I don't know what they were doing, but I say that there were -- needless to say,
 there was a lot of gossip and a lot of things going on that I was not a party to.
 Okay, so essentially you were told on that same day of the crash that there were an unknown
 number of humanoids either killed or injured?
 Yeah.
 Okay. Did you see or did somebody just tell you that the parts and casualties were taken
 to base operations?
 I don't know. For instance, one of the people that I saw that I -- a certain would have
 seen it happened to be a nurse that was in uniform. It was in uniform at the time.
 She told you right then?
 No, no. I say she would have known, but she wouldn't talk to me.
 Oh, okay. Well, you could only find out something if somebody either tells you or shows you
 --
 I had a natural curiosity as to what was happening, but they were very closed-mouthed, very secretive
 about everything.
 Okay. And you had learned that parts and casualties were transported to Wright-Patterson Air Force
 base. Again, I'd be most interested to know where you learned that or how you learned
 it or the circumstances of learning it.
 Well, later on, I had a very close friend who was a full colonel and who happened -- Paul
 Sleeper was a very good friend of his. And he and I discussed that a little bit, and
 he said, "Yes, that's where the parts went." He was a full colonel, Dr. George Kristof.
 Dr. George Kristof told you that?
 Yes.
 At that same time, essentially? That same year, at least?
 Well, it's later, but I don't remember exactly how much later.
 Okay. Maybe after he had been through with his whatever non-disclosure he had to take
 care of. Okay. Well, let me just turn back a little bit to Stanton Friedman and anybody
 that might want to answer any of these questions. What evidence do we have since '47, certainly
 in the '60s or at the time of this Alan McGorgor incident or anything of -- what is the evidence
 that we have that's as solid as we have? What is the most solid evidence of the humanoid
 parts and so on that somebody told Colonel French about? Can we get to a direct person
 that might have said something either to Colonel French or anybody else about Alan McGorgor
 or anything that has to do with humanoids? Let's get into that. I want to know the best
 evidence there is out there today.
 We've got lots of good abduction stories.
 Now, you know, there might be things being withheld. That's not -- you know, and I understand
 all that. I just want to know -- and that might be the fault of the Army. That might
 be why we don't know. But I'm interested in what we absolutely do know about humanoids,
 even if --
 Testimony from people who have been abducted is as close as you get. I mean --
 Well, who's saying that? Okay. Well, give me the names.
 There's a book out there captured, "The Betty and Barney Hill UFO Experience." It's about
 two people who were abducted. They were carefully investigated by Dr. Benjamin Simon, a psychiatrist
 who ran a hospital for 3,000 shell shock war veterans. He says the emotional upheaval in
 their voices as he had 10 sessions with each of them was as strong as that in any of the
 war veterans that he had dealt with with PTSD. He's in the Army movie about PTSD. He knows
 that field, doesn't know flying saucers. And they saw -- they were close, intimately close
 to humanoids, to occupants from a vehicle from up there.
 Okay. Mr. Freeman, what are the names of those people that said they were abducted and then
 obviously came back to explain about that?
 Betty -- their names were Betty and Barney Hill, a couple in New Hampshire. The book
 is captured, "The Betty and Barney Hill UFO Experience," by myself. And the woman who
 did most of the work was Kathleen Martin, who's Betty's niece. She has the hypnosis
 tapes. It's a long story, an involved story, but one of the best ones around in terms of
 the quality of the people. Betty was a social worker.
 Okay. And we can follow up and even read the book and so on. What other examples do we
 have?
 In keeping with the Roswell theme, as we've talked about, the rancher, Mack Brazel --
 What year?
 Yes, 1947.
 Yeah, okay, thank you.
 1947, time of the incident. When the rancher first reported the fine to Sheriff George
 Wilcox --
 And the rancher --
 William W. W. Mack Brazel, Sheriff George Wilcox, and a reporter by the name of Frank
 Joyce from radio station KGFL, placed a phone call to get some late breaking news for his
 next report. And the sheriff said, "I think there's someone here you should speak with."
 And according to Joyce, he didn't get the name of the individual on the other line,
 but at first he was quite angry. He was upset about the fact, as described earlier, that
 he had to drive the sheep a couple of miles around all this wreckage. Who was responsible?
 Who was going to come and clean it all up? I'm the supervisor and everything. And then
 it became more and more somber, and he started talking about it was horrible. It was horrible.
 You wouldn't believe it. And Joyce finally, "What are you talking about? Something else?"
 To which he then would suggest, "Are you talking about bodies?" To which Joyce then
 suggested, "Well, you know they're launching those rockets over at White Sands. Maybe they've
 launched an animal. Maybe they're sending monkeys up in those rockets." To which Brazl
 fired back, "They weren't any monkeys. They weren't human. They weren't human. They weren't
 human. They weren't human." Since then, Brazl's own granddaughter, Fawn Fritz, has described
 to us that she overheard her grandfather also make the remark about the poor, unfortunate
 creatures. We've also talked to young ranch boys at that time, Dee Proctor and Sidney
 Jack Wright, who were supposedly with Brazl when he would discover a couple of bodies
 a few miles from the debris field at another location, another location, at Frankie Row.
 And so that you're saying that they did talk about it right at that time? Yes, yes. Oh,
 okay. That's a little different than what you said. Well, because it could take up a
 whole panel. I've already gone over my time, but I'm most interested. I was just going
 to say what you seem to be asking me was, "Do we have any contemporary records from
 that time?" Somebody wrote in their diary, "I saw bodies." If you want to talk about
 people who saw the bodies in 1947, yeah, we can give you lots of names. That's all I wanted
 is people that said it at the time, and nobody questions they said it at the time. And you
 had said, "Well, we've got them saying it later." And I just wanted to clarify this.
 Is it clarified? Yes. Because as I pointed out, Major Marcel, the father of Colonel Marcel,
 said it at the time, and it became well known at the time. That's what I'm looking for,
 something that was said at the time on a humanoid or some kind of a life form or something associated
 with one of these sightings. Could I take a minute? Please. Wow. It's up to the chair.
 Thank you. We had mentioned Frankie Rowe. Her father was a firefighter with the Roswell
 Fire Department. His name was Dan Dwyer. And the Fire Department adjoined the courthouse
 at that time. There was one phone line that ran into both. You couldn't report an incident
 to one without both hearing about it. So there was the report of a crash north of town. There
 was a talk about something that had gone down north of town. And the Fire Department investigated
 it. They went to check it out. According to Frankie Rowe, who was still alive, that when
 her father returned, the military already was securing the site, but that he described
 that they had seen the bodies. And it was later, whether it was that evening or shortly
 thereafter, they were visited by the military, by a military officer and a number of other
 MPs. And they were very sternly warned about not talking about this.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd like to hear from, again, any one of you that want to talk about
 this. What are the things that you were -- I'd like to know what you wanted to say in this
 panel that you didn't say on the first panel. So Mr. Colonel Marcel, do you want to talk
 about what -- anything that you want to talk about that you didn't talk about on the first
 panel? Well, I just have formed a lot of opinions
 about UFOs and extraterrestrial visitations. And what I'd like to emphasize is the fact
 that the universe is such a large place. There's 10 to 20 second-power stars, which is about
 the number of grains of sand on all the beaches on Earth. And just to say that one -- if they
 represent all the stars, there are all the grains of sand on the beach, if you only say
 that one has life around it like us and the rest of them are devoid of life, then I think
 we're sadly mistaken. Because the enormous possibilities of all life is everywhere, everywhere.
 Thank you. Colonel Watt-Randall, anything you want to add that you didn't say earlier?
 One of the things that I wanted to kind of talk about, which I think diverts us a tad
 bit, is this Project Mogul nonsense. And the Air Force explanation that Project Mogul explains
 it all, that Project Mogul was highly classified, and that's why the officers at Roswell were
 unable to identify the wreckage when they saw it. But it turns out Project Mogul was
 -- although it was highly classified, the purpose, the equipment and the experiments
 being carried out in New Mexico was not classified. They were mentioned in the newspaper on July
 10th as an explanation for what was found at Roswell. Charles Moore, who was the -- one
 of the scientists on Project Mogul, had said that it was so highly classified, they didn't
 even know the name. Yet, if you review Dr. Crary's diary from 1947, what you see is the
 name Mogul appearing periodically in it. The Air Forces used this as the cover. They said
 originally in 1947 it was a weather balloon. Then they said, well, we lied about that,
 it wasn't a weather balloon. And then they gave us another one, another weather balloon
 as an explanation. And that seems to have set in now after the last 10 years with the
 media that, well, Roswell's explained as a weather balloon. And the answer is they can't
 even point to a flight of these balloons that have not been identified as such. So the Project
 Mogul explanation simply doesn't work. We looked at -- and I say we, Don and Stan and
 I have looked for alternative explanations for the Roswell case. We went to White Sands
 Missile Range to see if there was a missile launch that would account for the debris found
 on the Brazel Ranch. We went to the archives in Alamogordo on the space program to see
 if they were launching any kind of creatures, whether they were mice or mayflies or chimpanzees
 that would account for the wreckage. And we could find absolutely nothing. I had always
 said if we could find an explanation for this -- maybe they had tested an astronaut in 1947
 and he was killed in the test. And if we could find something like that, we could write best-selling
 books about it and make a lot of money. But we could find nothing that explains the Roswell
 wreckage when you account for all the testimony, all the people who were involved, what they
 told us, the limited documentation we have. But when you look at all of that together,
 none of the explanations offered explains it in terrestrial terms.
 Yes, Mr. Friedman.
 Another point that should be made is that I contacted somebody who looked at the newspaper
 in Alamogordo, which is right next to Holloman Air Force Base. And it turns out they staged
 the launch of a radar-reflector-weather-balloon combination --
 On July 10th.
 The newspaper, July 10th. And fantasy of flying disk explained here was the headline. And
 they showed a picture of one of these balloon trains. And it just doesn't fit. If you look
 at the facts about what they launched and what was observed, they don't match. They
 don't match at all. But the fact that they went to the trouble of staging a launch tells
 you something. It was very important. Why bother? If it's just a dumb old weather balloon,
 who cares? It makes no sense. So they went to a lot of trouble to try to cover it up.
 And when Cavett, the CIC man, comes up with this real crazy story that he knew it was
 a balloon right away, it only covered an area 20 feet in diameter, even though the newspaper
 said 200, mind you, fit in one car, nothing to it. If that's all there had been, the rancher
 would have brought in his wreckage and his little truck.
 Right.
 And there would have been no reason for Jesse Marcel and Captain Cavett to follow them all
 the way out in the middle of nowhere. There's a lot of nowhere in New Mexico.
 Right. Which is...
 And they stayed overnight, had their sleeping bags. That's making a big deal about nothing
 when Cavett lies and says it would fit in one vehicle, 20 feet square. But the New York
 Times didn't comment about it. Everybody carried that explanation. So one of the things we're
 dealing with here is a failure of the press to ask even the obvious questions. You know,
 the colonel, the head of the 509th can't identify a weather balloon? These guys had fought in
 the Pacific. They weren't right off the training base. Jesse Marcel couldn't identify a weather
 balloon. They got away with it. But this is in the '90s, mind you. So the press is still
 not doing its job.
 I can understand in '47, we just fought a great war. You know, you believe the government...
 Didn't everybody believe the government back then? But in '97, that they could get away
 with this, it really bugs me. And a little inside story. I'm waiting. They have reissued,
 Cosimo Publishers has reissued those two volumes of the Roswell Report. The second one was
 case closed. The first one said they were not going to say anything more. Three years
 later, this is the second one. On the top, it says, "With the new introduction by nuclear
 physicist Stanton Friedman, author of Crash and Corona, the definitive study, the Roswell
 Incident." I'm waiting for somebody in the Air Force, because my comments are very strong,
 about lies by the Air Force, about in this report. I'm waiting for somebody to say, "Hey,
 look what he said about us. If I don't make it home, you'll know why."
 In keeping, as far as even on the CIC, on the Sheridan-Cavett theme, as Kevin remembers
 the numerous times that we actually sat down and met with then Lieutenant Colonel Sheridan
 Cavett, he and his wife, Mary, whether in their home up in the Squam, Washington, or
 their winter home on Sierra Vista, yes. Yeah, he retired Lieutenant Colonel. And the very
 first meeting, how we spent the better part of an afternoon, his denying he was even there,
 that he had yet to even arrive at Roswell. Didn't matter. You're talking about someone
 else, someone who was there before me. And as we were leaving, he walked us out to the
 car and he says to us, "Boys, I need to know one thing. Should you find anything that should
 threaten national security, you will keep it to yourselves, won't you?" And we looked
 at one another and, "Yes, Colonel, of course, of course." And we got in the car and we looked
 at one another and said, "He knows. He knows." And then as we would visit and press more
 and more and we'd speak with him over the phone and demonstrate not only was he there,
 but he was involved and to the point that, "Well, I went out there, but it wasn't really
 anything." Well, at one point he even said, "Well, it could have been a flying saucer,
 but I wasn't involved," that type of thing. The very last time we met with him and he
 and his wife were outside at the car and I said to him, "Colonel, I really have to hand
 it to you. You've been a man who's kept your oath all these years. You're a true patriot."
 And he thanked me and I said, "But, Colonel, what gives you the right withholding it from
 my generation, all of us who weren't even there in 1947? You've decided for all of us."
 And he paused for a moment and he says, "I've never thought of it that way before, but I'm
 still not going to tell you anything." And then his wife, Mary, blurts out, "Tell the
 boys about the colonel from the Pentagon who was just here to talk with you." And he turns
 and gives her this look, this searing look, and it was Colonel Richard Weaver in preparation
 of the Project Mogul Report, to which Colonel Kev had become their lone star witness. And
 he snaps at us and, "Yes, and I told him exactly what I'm telling you. I wasn't involved."
 Well, that's not what's in the Project Mogul Report, according to what he told Colonel
 Weaver. He was the one who immediately identified it as nothing more than this mogul balloon,
 and in fact, he kept it to himself. He didn't even bother telling the base commander or
 Major Marcel, but that he saw that it was nothing more than a weather balloon. So we
 caught him in a flat lie. He nonetheless is the only witness to this being a mogul balloon.
 But as he told us, as he said, as I told Colonel Weaver, "I wasn't involved." So who should
 we believe?
 And in fact, we have Colonel Kavett on tape. It was right after Weaver had seen him, and
 he was talking about how he wasn't there. We said, "Well, they talk about this West
 Texas boy who was a good horseman in Kavett says, 'Well, that sounds like me, but I wasn't
 there.'" And then this was after Weaver had interviewed him. We look at the testimony
 in the report, and Kavett says, "Well, I noticed it was a weather balloon immediately.
 The next question should have been, did you communicate this rather vital piece of intelligence
 to Jesse Marcel?" But they go off on another tangent. Kavett made it clear that the CIC
 was a Class II facility on Roswell, which means he did not report to Blanchard in the
 chain of command. Blanchard was required to support his activity. But he should have said
 something to Blanchard before he sends people out to clean the mess up and before he issues
 a press release and says, "Well, we've got a flying saucer."
 Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Well, our next person to question is Carolyn Kirkpatrick.
 Thank you, old chairman. Mr. Schmidt. Could you give me four sound scientific reasons
 why we ought to look further into Roswell or why Roswell is important to what we're
 discussing this week?
 Very good. As I remarked in my opening statement, we're here representing the memories of so
 many of the hundreds of witnesses that we have interviewed through the years. We remain
 in contact with the families as they continue to encourage us to not only pursue a final
 solution to what their parents so often died with or would confide, finally, to having
 truth without proof. It was one of the problems, as we depicted even in the Roswell movie,
 that you can swear on a stack of Bibles that this happened, but without the physical proof,
 just as none of us. We can't prove this. So what we're asking or what we're certainly
 asking as far as your counsel on behalf of those now deceased witnesses as well as their
 surviving families, what type of effort on our part or how would you advise us to even
 continue the work of the late Congressman Stephen Schiff in pushing for a disclosure
 of the file, an opening of the Roswell file once and for all. We don't want to see Project
 Mogul. We know all about Project Mogul, and it does not address the eyewitness testimony.
 The wooden crash dummies wasn't even that same year. It was five years removed. We're
 talking about sworn affidavits, deathbed declarations, and the support of the families who would
 at least like to know that their spouses, their husbands, their fathers didn't live
 a lie, didn't persist in maintaining that this was something extraordinary, this was
 something beyond any earthly comprehension. The fact that as I keep harkening back to
 your own esteemed colleague, Congressman Schiff, he obviously saw that he was being stonewalled,
 that there was much more to this.
 Please stop. Give me three or four specific scientific realities that we know happened
 at Roswell, in Roswell.
 It's an historic fact that the United States Army Air Corps announced on July 8th that
 they had captured a flying saucer. That's not scientific, it's historic.
 And they acknowledged that Mr. Marcellus' father saw particles.
 Yes.
 Some people saw a crash.
 Yes.
 And did you just say the military or our government acknowledged that a flying saucer or something
 crashed?
 They put out a press release.
 Okay, that's a good one.
 That they actually captured a flying disk, correct.
 Okay, that's one.
 Two would be the fact that for years thereafter, no matter what, the second solution to the
 recovery, the weather balloon, eyewitnesses were still discussing this with their families,
 still saying that the flying saucer was the correct explanation, even to their deathbeds.
 The third would be the deathbed testimonies admissible in a court of law.
 And what did one or two of them allude to or testify to or say?
 As I stated earlier.
 That they saw it?
 They saw it crash?
 They would talk about either guarding, shipping, crating up, flying out, the remains, the wreckage,
 handling of the wreckage.
 Okay.
 Seeing the bodies.
 All that needs to be on the record.
 That's why I want you to be specific and you're doing well.
 One more, sir?
 Any one other thing, if there is one, if there's none, that's okay.
 Fourth would certainly be flight records, for example.
 Records as far as outgoing cryptology records from the base.
 This was one of the things that even Congressman Schiff was pushing for through the general
 accounting office for all the records concerning the events.
 And the GAO, their information received from all branches of the military, specifically
 the Air Force, was that all the records of the base of Roswell in the summer of 1947
 had been mysteriously destroyed.
 Okay.
 Now, we don't believe that for a second.
 No, they're classified.
 They're over there somewhere.
 Okay.
 That's right.
 I don't want to lose what we have.
 Our responsibility is here.
 So those records exist.
 And we would also ask that, again, if they were to disclose anything else.
 Anything else of this panel, and others probably too, and you just identified three or four
 things just off the top.
 There might be ten.
 That would give us something in writing, a page or two, with listing those so that we
 wouldn't have to dig them up.
 It would help us in our deliberations or whatever recommendation we would make.
 If the experts can provide, particularly this on Roswell and some of the other things that
 we heard in the last three days, and I'm sure the next two, that would help us make intelligent
 decisions on what we might get together and try to agree on and try to recommend, if we
 can come to such a point.
 That would be helpful.
 Let me just...
 I should...
 Well, just, we did mention that during the break.
 That we should have provided you with a timeline, a breakdown, a principle.
 But...
 It's not too late, though.
 It's not too late.
 The fact that if we combine as far as Stan's efforts and our own, we're talking a combination
 of we're approaching 100 years of research in this.
 I understand, I understand.
 And it has become so complicated, so involved, that to just provide even a briefing paper,
 we would be happy to do that.
 Okay.
 And what I'm suggesting is that you all have the briefing paper and we'll brief who we
 want to share this information with.
 We don't have to have it quite finite like that.
 We do have to have it in a statement of two or three sentences that we would understand
 that we can teach and mobilize and educate others so that we know what we're talking
 about.
 I mean, you guys need to actually give it to them and give them the detailed information.
 That's not to mention that you probably shouldn't have some.
 If it's this important, and I think that it is in terms of what we're here for this week,
 there ought to be something, a document, a something, that all of you all can come behind
 in all the research that you've done.
 You know something, you know how you're in college and get these primers?
 It doesn't have to be a big volume.
 You've got them in a lot of volumes already just pulling it together.
 Because of all the work that members of the House and Senate do in this town, it's going
 to be something like that.
 It's not going to be a big volume that gets the attention.
 It's what you say, how you say it, and how concise you can do it.
 If you'll do that, that'll help us do whatever we're going to finally end up doing and presenting.
 I forgot that the panel wasn't at my lecture last night where I went into service.
 Too late.
 We started six in the morning.
 We don't do that.
 You're right.
 I mean, we really do.
 And we go from six in the morning, contrary to what the newspaper says about all of us,
 we work very hard.
 From six in the morning to ten or eleven at night.
 But it's all nonstop.
 But we're very sorry that we couldn't get in.
 We probably won't be the ones this evening.
 But that's not to say that we aren't interested in what you do and what you say.
 And we have prepared briefing documents in the past when we have responded to the Air
 Force, for example, regarding Project Mobile.
 And we would have press conferences and we would have briefing documents to present as
 far as to the media.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 We'll go back, sir.
 Thank you very much.
 Congressman?
 Congresswoman?
 Lynn?
 You, he knows my name, thank you.
 Somewhere in today's testimonies in the papers, was it Major Marcel that was put into, taken,
 put in a house where he was held kind of hostage?
 Oh, that was Brazel.
 Talk about that a little bit.
 What was that about and how did he get through that?
 What happened is Brazel came in the course on a Sunday and announced that he had this
 debris.
 He then led Marcel and Cavett back out to the ranch.
 They brought the material back to Roswell.
 He stayed at the ranch.
 Now a couple of days later, the radio station owner of KGFL brought Brazel back into town
 so that they could interview him.
 They recorded an hour-long interview with him.
 Before they could air that, they got, and we have this testimony on both audio and video
 tape from Jud Roberts, who was a minority station owner of KGFL, that they were told
 by their congressional representatives that if they aired that report, they better start
 looking for another job because they wouldn't be in the radio business anymore.
 Walt Whitmore, who was the majority owner, took Brazel out to the base.
 That's how he got out to the base.
 They then kept him out there for a number of days.
 They brought him into, or took him into Roswell to the newspaper.
 He made the statement that appeared on July 9th about the harassed rancher who found the
 whole thing.
 According to what Brazel said to neighbors, Marion Strickland, the proctors, and people
 like this, he was held there for a number of days and was not allowed to leave so that
 the military had him in custody.
 Edwin Easley, who was the provost marshal, was the one who told me that he was held in
 the guest house as opposed to another facility on the base.
 He was held there for a number of days.
 His son, Bill Brazel, read about his father in the newspaper, went to the ranch.
 His father wasn't there.
 He came back a number of days.
 The best estimate is he was held in Roswell for four to six days after he had returned.
 Is that when he stopped talking?
 He was told ... I always got the impression from talking to Bill Brazel that they merely
 said to him, "We would rather you kept this quiet."
 Bill said to us, and my father was such a man, that if you asked him to do something
 like that and he gave his word, then that was good enough and he wasn't going to talk
 about it.
 He shared very little with his family about what had happened to him or the neighbors,
 but he was really annoyed about being held in Roswell for a number of days.
 That is what he talked about to the neighbors, and we have a great deal of testimony from
 those who heard him talking about it.
 You're talking about a civilian who is essentially arrested, detained by the military for five
 to six days.
 He was not afforded due process, your typical two phone calls.
 He was not even allowed to call his own wife to tell her where he was and that he was okay.
 He described how he was kept up all hours of the night and he was asked the same questions
 over and over again.
 It still comes back to what information, what did he see that was so sensitive that the
 military sought in their best interest to keep him under lock and key until they gained
 his cooperation and then were assured in their releasing him that he would not say anything
 further about this.
 As his son Bill would say to us, "It's better you don't know.
 Don't ask.
 It's better you don't know."
 Okay.
 I really don't have anything else, so thank you.
 Thank you very much, Congressman.
 Again, thank you all very much for your testimony.
 These were not animal remains in that rocket.
 I can say that with some confidence because I was involved in the first suborbital primate
 flight in Pensacola, Florida and I went there in 1959.
 It was about 1960 that we did the first suborbital primate flight early, early in our space venture.
 Was there a mogul launch that could have been responsible for this?
 The evidence that has been presented, it was Dr. Albert Crary's diary who gave us the information.
 The identified flight was supposedly flight number four on June 4th, 1947.
 According to Crary's diary, because of cloud cover, the missile launch had been canceled,
 so their flight was canceled.
 Charles Moore, who was a scientist, told me when that happened, they stripped the equipment
 from the balloons, from the arrays, but they couldn't let the helium out of the balloons,
 so they would let the balloons go.
 Crary's diary then has a cryptic note about on the same day that we flew Sonoboy up there
 and couldn't get good reception, so there's some discussion about it.
 The first recorded flight for Project Mogul was flight number five.
 There had been three flights in New Jersey prior to them getting to New Mexico.
 The documentation is a little bit hinky on that, but according to what Charles Moore
 had said in a letter that he wrote in 1995, that they didn't file the notum as they were
 required by the CAA at the time.
 I'm sure he did this because we went through the archives.
 I went to the archives looking for the notums because I'd like to see how they described
 the arrays and if there was a notum for the June 4th launch.
 He said in a 1995 letter that they had not contacted the FAA because they didn't expect
 this mythical flight to get off the restricted area at White Sand.
 Even if the flight was launched, it wasn't expected to reach any altitudes and it wasn't
 suspected to get off the White Sand's missile range, according to him.
 I'm sure that he'd said that simply because that would explain why there was no FAA notification.
 There was no good documentation that flight number four ever was launched.
 There was no good documentation that it reached the Brazel Ranch.
 There was no good documentation that Brazel was unable to identify the weather balloons.
 The Mogul arrays were just weather balloons.
 There were weather balloons.
 There was 15, 20 weather balloons strung together, but it's still weather balloons.
 Jesse Marcel would have recognized the weather balloons for what they were.
 Cavett obviously recognized the weather balloons, but the point is simply that had it been a
 Project Mogul flight, we would have been able to identify it specifically from the testimonies
 of the witnesses and the documentation available.
 Why would they need a several day cleanup if it was a Mogul balloon?
 They wouldn't have if it had been a Mogul.
 Was there in fact, is that well documented there was a several day cleanup with a number
 of military people?
 According to the witnesses, the people who were on the debris field cleaning it up, the
 men who were there that we were able to interview prior to their deaths, some of them on audio
 tape, some of them on video tape, they spent several days cleaning up the debris on the
 Brazel Ranch site.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Before my dad died, I asked him, "Would any of the debris still be out there?"
 And he says, "No, they vacuum the place up."
 That was his words.
 They vacuumed it up.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Really thorough cleanup.
 Why do we assume that other intelligent life has to look something like us?
 We don't.
 Isn't that a little arrogant?
 We don't.
 We don't?
 You're talking about humanoids.
 You go with the flow.
 You're talking about humanoids.
 That's what people say.
 Oh.
 You go with the flow.
 Yeah.
 But they would have said, "They're two arms, two legs ahead in the body."
 The guys with three arms and three legs go to Jupiter, you know, for their vacation.
 On the other hand, it may be that we are somebody's colony that they seated us here, a penal colony
 that they call dead boys and girls here.
 I'm sure there are some debunkers who have suggested that if we're seeing humanoids,
 we're hallucinating because it's perfectly conceivable that other intelligent life could
 have a different form than we have.
 But not necessarily.
 As Dr. Michael Swartz, professor emeritus at the University of Michigan Kalamazoo, professor
 of natural history, biologists, has suggested, if we consider biological symmetry, that throughout
 the universe that there would be a common link, that there would potentially be a resemblance,
 that they would be humanoid.
 That's conceivable.
 That's conceivable.
 That's what the evidence shows.
 It doesn't mean that there's nobody else out there.
 Non-humanoid.
 It doesn't mean that.
 In fact, if you take a look at all of the history of UFO sightings when they've reported
 occupants or creatures from inside, historically most of them have been humanoid.
 There are some cases where one of them was described as a hairy jelly bean bag.
 Things like that.
 But the testimony from the people who've seen creatures from inside the craft normally report
 a humanoid.
 Maybe taller than us.
 Maybe shorter than us.
 Maybe much more robust.
 But it's usually a humanoid creature.
 There are some cases where they're robotic in nature.
 And in Pascagoula, the fellows there described something that really wasn't much in the way
 of a humanoid but resembled vaguely a human.
 I knew Steve Schiff, by the way.
 I was on the committee.
 I was there when we had that.
 I thought it was a hearing.
 I'm told now that it wasn't a hearing, that it was a briefing.
 But sometimes it's hard to tell briefings from hearings in your memory.
 I know that he was concerned about this and was pushing to learn something.
 I mentioned before that there were two reasons, two things you could cite that tells you that
 the Air Force is not being truthful.
 There are really three.
 The press release they made.
 The fact that they sent these people these findings to Wright-Patterson.
 And the third thing is they were cleaning it up.
 If it was a weather balloon, none of those things would have been -- none of those things
 would have happened.
 Well, the first one, there might have been some confusion, wild confusion, the first
 one.
 But the second two, never.
 Never sent anything to Wright-Patterson.
 And they never would have cleaned up anything if it had been a weather balloon.
 What challenge?
 How do they explain that?
 >> That our witnesses are all lying.
 >> That's the only explanation.
 >> That's the only explanation.
 >> Nothing was ever sent to Wright-Patterson and nothing was ever cleaned up?
 >> There's the FBI telex from the FBI bureau in Dallas, Texas, that went out the very evening,
 6/17 p.m., that the weather balloon explanation had just come out from General Raimi's press
 conference.
 And it refuted that.
 Raimi had canceled the continuing flight on to Wright Field.
 And that stated that based on their telephonic conversation between Wright Field and their
 FBI office, that this belief was not borne out.
 In other words, the balloon explanation was not what they've been talking about, it's
 not what they were hearing.
 >> When did they switch from the weather balloon to mogul?
 >> In 1994.
 >> Ooh, quite a while.
 >> Oh, yeah.
 >> But that was mainly due to, again, Congressman Schiff pushing for release of the files.
 >> They had to find something that was so highly classified, they'd explain why they
 went against Herculean efforts, and that was where the mythology grew that mogul was so
 highly classified.
 Yes, the explanation was classified, but all the experiments going on in New Mexico simply
 were not.
 >> The purpose was classified.
 >> Yep.
 >> But not the equipment.
 >> But they were using common weather balloons, I understand.
 >> Not the materials.
 >> Standard weather balloons at 20-foot intervals by strength.
 >> So the only thing classified was that they had some additional instrumentation on it
 for picking up this radiation stuff.
 >> No.
 >> No, no, not at all.
 Everything on the mogul arrays launched in New Mexico was off-the-shelf materials.
 There were weather balloons, there were what they called a raywind radar target.
 >> It was a program that was classified?
 >> Yes.
 >> The purpose.
 >> The purpose was classified.
 >> The objective.
 >> I got you.
 Objective classified, okay.
 >> But they said it was so highly classified, the people in New Mexico didn't even know
 the names, yet when you look at Albert Crary's diary, he uses the name mogul in there at
 least twice.
 So he's well aware of what the name was.
 So it's an ongoing thing that they've done and been bought into by an awful lot of the
 press.
 Well, it was explained as project mogul.
 It simply does not work.
 >> Now, the project was so effective as it was designed to determine as far as from high
 altitude, should the Soviets detonate their first atomic bomb, we would pick up the shock
 wave from this acoustic listing device, this microphone, that when they did first detonate
 an atomic bomb in August of 1949, it wasn't mogul that picked it up.
 Mogul failed.
 We picked it up as far as due to chatter, talk, and air sampling as far as higher radiation
 levels.
 >> Yeah.
 By and by they get here.
 So the winds go around, yeah.
 Why would it surprise anybody that we were trying to determine whether the Soviets were
 detonating a weapon?
 >> Why would that surprise people?
 Why should that be?
 I was in the Congress for 20 years.
 I was on the Armed Services Committee for 20 years.
 I sat in a very large number of briefings.
 I can classify briefings.
 I can tell you that I cannot remember a single thing that I was told that I think would give
 aid and comfort to the enemy.
 We classify way too much.
 There's an old accent that says what's everybody's business is nobody's business.
 When you classify everything, nothing is classified, and we're pretty darn close to that.
 >> I think in 1947 the thought process was that they didn't -- we didn't want the Soviets
 to know that we had the capability to spy on them to do that.
 >> But the fact that we were sending something up there to listen wouldn't mean we had a
 capability.
 >> Pretty sophisticated when you think about it just being a balloon with a kite.
 >> Yeah.
 Okay.
 Thank you all very much.
 As we send the way through, this has been a very productive first three days.
 Thank you all very much.
 [ Applause ]
 >> I've got three brief points to make.
 One, is there any speculation out there why the UFO crashed?
 Have you heard anything?
 >> There's a lot of speculation.
 >> Share one with us.
 >> It ran into a radar beam.
 I mean, that sounds a little strange, but we know that there was a launch scheduled
 for White Sands, and we know that they -- those were vacuum tube radars, so they were left
 on so they wouldn't have to warm up.
 They were not transistorized or anything like that.
 So if pilot and a wingman -- 40% of the cases involve more than one object seen at a time.
 If they just happened to cross this beam -- this wasn't searching this way, just a beam aiming
 out there, maybe killing a pigeon or something.
 You run into the beam, and it discombobulates your guidance system, your propulsion system.
 Maybe they go like this, the two pilot and wingman kind of thing.
 And so that sounds dumb, not sophisticated, if you will, but you have to expect surprises.
 It's like drive through New Mexico and run into a hailstorm, and I got bumps all over
 my car.
 New Mexico?
 It's dry.
 What kind of hailstorm?
 It was a big hailstorm.
 There's another point here, too.
 General Groves, Manhattan Project Groves, as late as '48 was saying it would take the
 Russians eight years before they could build an atomic bomb, because they just don't have
 the industrial capacity that we do.
 It took one.
 There was an attitude in Washington.
 This is a bunch of dumb peasants, you know, not sophisticated, oh, maybe they've got spies
 here and there, but nothing to it.
 And so this really shook them up.
 So they said even if they got a bomb, they had no means for delivering it, casually forgetting
 that we'd left a B-29, but they then copied and built a bunch of, and shocked us when
 they displayed them in Moscow at their usual dog and pony show.
 So the atomic bomb end of things was of great concern to the United States, because there
 was real concern that once we found out, and one of the scariest memos I've ever seen from
 all the archive research is a National Security Council memo in the early 1950 saying the
 Russians have made more progress in the past 18 months in the development of nuclear weapons
 and methods for delivering them that had been expected for five years.
 They were concerned, and wouldn't you be under those conditions?
 Very much so.
 If I might speculate, you wanted speculation, and here's my favorite speculation, they did
 it on purpose.
 They crashed on purpose.
 What they wanted, they wanted the most non-hostile way of announcing their presence to the earth
 and what is more, would make us feel easier if we picked up the craft and the bodies and
 realize that they are as delicate as we are, as fragile as we are, they're non-confrontational.
 Now we have the information.
 Their plan failed simply because they crashed at Roswell and the embargo on the news went
 down.
 But I've always liked that theory.
 I don't subscribe to it, you understand, but I've always liked that theory that they did
 it on purpose.
 That's interesting.
 Please.
 These might have been clones that were expendable.
 That's more of an American approach.
 Let me point out earlier, I can't identify which one of you suggested it, but I think
 it was more than once.
 What should you do now after the hearings?
 We've got two more days of hearings and I want to stress that tomorrow we're hearing
 testimony from people from South America and that's in the morning and in the afternoon
 we're hearing from people from the rest of the world who've stepped forward to testify.
 So this is very important.
 Up till now it's been pretty much a homegrown American approach and I think it's much more
 significant from a world point of view.
 So you're asking what effort.
 Again, I think I've alluded to this earlier, but the Congress I think is a dead letter
 to accomplish anything in that regard.
 I say this with all due respect to the Congress who have a lot of fine people, but I think
 that the best effort we have for bringing visibility to the people of the world of this
 issue, you're probably not all that familiar with the various conferences that the UN have.
 Remember they had the conference on the child, the conference on women?
 They garner unbelievable attention in the buildup for these conferences.
 So I would ask that you use your good offices and certainly we may try to approach this
 that we could go to the United Nations.
 Now I don't think we'd have a prayer in the Security Council because it's controlled
 by us and that just wouldn't happen.
 But what would happen in the General Assembly if we were to introduce a resolution or if
 we can't do it as Americans we could do it maybe through the Brazilian government or
 the Canadian government, they would introduce a resolution and the General Assembly, I'll
 bet you it would pass, they would fund some part of it, the rest of the funding could
 come from private sources and we would have the most awe-inspiring world event on this
 subject within a couple, three years.
 And so I would ask you, I would suggest that you use your good offices to work with us
 as individuals or as a group to try to bring this about.
 And we're not prejudging anything, we're just feeling that this issue addresses the
 entire civilization of what we are on this planet.
 Let me thank everybody for today's participation.
 Obviously later in the day the number of people diminished.
 But let me emphasize, tomorrow is a very, very significant day for a hearing because
 we are broadening out as Americans to a global identification.
 So again, these hearings are adjourned.
