 It's going to be an educational week, for sure.
 And we are, as Chairman Bartlett said, we're going to be sitting like we are in committee,
 and we're going to pattern what we're doing today after a formal congressional hearing.
 And first of all, we have with us Congresswoman Darlene Houley, and we have Senator Gravel,
 Mike Gravel.
 We have Congresswoman Carolyn Kilpatrick, and we have Congressman Merrill Cook.
 And we are all retired.
 So among us, we have 80 years or more experience, but 80 years just on the federal level.
 And Roscoe and I, we're classmates.
 We have 20 years each.
 And I have to tell you, it is our commitment today, as if we were part of a hearing in
 the House of Representatives, it's our commitment to listen through objective ears and to ask
 the kinds of questions that we think that the American people would like us to ask so
 that they can become better informed, because obviously there's going to be a press on this.
 And we would like to make the public more aware, and we would like to have a hearing
 that could lead possibly to legislation or policymaking.
 So if we're objective, if we're businesslike, and we stick to the issue, I think we're going
 to have a very, very interesting week.
 And right now, though, we get to swear in the first two witnesses.
 And initially, I think, Dr. Edgar Mitchell will be brought in on Skype.
 Good morning, Dr. Mitchell.
 Good morning.
 I am a former astronaut, proof of the moon on Apollo 14.
 And so I have a little bit of out-of-the-earth experience, but also I grew up near Roswell,
 New Mexico on a ranch flight, and the so-called Roswell incident of 1947 occurred when I was
 a senior in high school and getting ready to go off to college in the East.
 So and I have been interested in this subject for many years, but let me set up the basic
 credentials-- for the first time in our human history, our technology is showing us how
 huge our universe-- well, let's just call it a multiverse-- is with billions and billions
 of galaxies and galactic clusters and stars, and many of them-- and we identified a few--
 many of them so far that possibly could have living systems on them, living beings.
 And we have a history that I'm aware of, particularly starting with the Roswell incident, but even
 long before that, that we have been visited by aliens or visitors from different star
 systems and different planets.
 And of course, if we continue our endeavors, we will in due course be able to go outside
 our solar system as well.
 At the moment, our technology is not allowing us to do that, but in due course, we will
 be able to do that, I'm quite sure, and we must because our sun will only last a few
 more billion years, and we're even doing things to it that cause it to be-- a life on this
 planet to be unsustainable, either way we're going by using non-maneuverable resources
 and so forth.
 And so we have to rethink about this whole issue of our being here on this planet at
 this point in time, and how do we continue our life here, and how do we continue being
 stalwart citizens of planet Earth and keeping our civilization going and eventually be able
 to leave our planet and go somewhere else and investigate somewhere else, because we're
 not alone in the universe.
 They have been coming here for a long, long time, it seems, the evidence would suggest
 that.
 We have been having visitors for a long, long time, perhaps hundreds, maybe even thousands
 of years.
 There's some that would even say that the pyramid is both in Egypt and in South America,
 that the aliens aided us in building those, and that seems to have a reasonable ring to
 it.
 But in any event, we're not alone in the universe, and we're only now beginning to get enough
 evidence through our science and our understanding of the way the universe is put together to
 recognize we really are alone, and that we can, in due course, just like others have,
 it appears.
 They come here, we go there.
 And so I think we'll have a lot of testimony here today regarding that fact, and I urge
 you to listen to it, and let's open this up to the larger picture that, and acknowledge,
 yes, we're not alone.
 We are, they are here.
 We can't go there, and in due course, we will.
 And for the last, I've been very interested in this for the last 16 or 17 years on a basis
 of speaking about it publicly, and since I went to the moon 47 years ago, and my co-colleague
 Gordon Cooper also had an incident when he was at Edwards Air Force Base as a duty officer
 at a UFO land while he was on duty.
 So there's a number of us that have had these types of experiences to say, yes, we're not
 alone.
 We have been visited, and let's go forward in understanding this phenomenon.
 And I hope you have a good week, and I'll stay, stay with you as long as I can.
 Thank you.
 (Applause.)
 >> Good morning.
 I'm Paul Hellyer, former Minister of Defense of Canada.
 And a long-time participant in politics and governance.
 Over many decades of service to the Canadian people, I have come to understand and appreciate
 the importance of open, transparent government and the power of truth as antidote to the
 many afflictions the body politic is heir to.
 The true currency of the 21st century will not be gold or silver or a basket of currencies,
 however useful they may be.
 It will be trust.
 Without that commodity, progress and right action are undermined and delayed.
 There is only one way to regain trust, find and tell the truth.
 (Applause.)
 Whether to your friends or family or to the citizens of nations, I believe this citizens
 hearing serves that purpose, and like my friend, Edgar Mitchell, I say without equivocation,
 we are not alone in the cosmos.
 We have neighbors.
 We should try to get to understand them and to cooperate with them.
 Thank you.
 (Applause.)
 I think it was about 33 years ago I was camping in West Virginia on a mountain 4,000 feet
 high.
 I got up in the middle of the night and went out and I just couldn't believe what I saw.
 The stars looked so darn close it looked like I could reach up and touch them.
 And there really was a Milky Way.
 I can't see it here.
 There is too much pollution.
 There is way too many lights here to see the Milky Way.
 We're just one star, a fairly mediocre star in the Milky Way.
 If the Milky Way was the United States, we're a fairly mediocre star somewhere in South
 Georgia.
 And there are a million other galaxies out there, a billion perhaps out there like ours.
 You have to be very arrogant and very presumptive to believe that this -- I'm a scientist.
 I got my Ph.D. 66 years ago.
 You have to be very arrogant and presumptive to believe that this is the only place where
 life exists in a universe this large.
 So I'm really looking forward to the testimony today.
 Thank you all very much for being here.
 (Applause.)
 So I'd like to acknowledge we're running about 13 minutes late.
 If we could have Ms. Hell, Mr. Dolan, Mr. Friedman, and Mr. Cameron come forward.
 And in a moment I have the distinct honor of administering the oath.
 And gentlemen and Ms. Hell, if you'd like to repeat after me, I do hereby affirm --
 >> I do hereby affirm -- >> -- that I will tell the truth --
 >> -- that I will tell the truth -- >> -- and nothing but the truth --
 >> -- and nothing but the truth -- >> -- to the members of this committee today
 -- >> -- to the members of this committee today.
 >> Thank you.
 I believe we're scheduled to begin with Mr. Dolan.
 >> Esteemed members of the committee, thank you for having me.
 I'm a researcher and historian on the matter of UFOs, particularly as they relate to U.S.
 national security policy.
 I just have a short statement here.
 The UFO problem has involved military personnel around the world for more than 60 years, and
 it is wrapped in secrecy.
 Because this subject is so widely ridiculed, it's important to stress why it's worthy of
 serious attention.
 Stories of strange objects in the sky actually go far back in time, but from the 1940s to
 our own era, military personnel from the United States and many other nations have encountered
 unidentified flying objects, visually or on radar or both, sometimes at close range.
 These events happen not scores of times, but hundreds of times, perhaps thousands.
 Sometimes the encounter was nothing more than a solid radar return of an object moving at
 an incomprehensible speed, performing impossible maneuvers.
 Sometimes it included the violation of sensitive airspace.
 Often it involved the dispatch of one or more aircraft to intercept the object.
 At times, crew members have claimed to see a metallic disc-like object, sometimes with
 portholes, sometimes with lights, frequently engaged in what appeared to be intelligent
 evasive maneuvers.
 In very few cases, it appears to have involved the military retrieval of a UFO.
 In a few others, it involved injury and even death to military personnel.
 And in a very large number of recorded instances, military personnel who encountered UFOs were
 adamant that they did not see a natural phenomenon.
 This is clearly a serious development and it has been treated as such by those groups
 charged with maintaining national security.
 The CIA, the NSA, and all branches of military intelligence have historically received UFO
 reports and discussed the matter as something of serious concern.
 And yet, the military and other branches of government have created the fiction for public
 consumption only that the UFO problem is nothing to be concerned about, certainly not the result
 of little green men.
 We are fortunate that starting in the 1970s, the US Freedom of Information Act began to
 help researchers learn some of the truth that lay behind the facade of propaganda.
 We learned, for example, that some US military analysts initially feared that the Soviet
 Union might be behind the flying saucer wave of the 1940s and '50s.
 They studied this possibility but rejected it.
 They also rejected the possibility that these were secret American technology.
 And indeed, options quickly narrowed.
 Either this was something real and alien or it was something conventional, but as yet
 unknown or unexplained.
 Already by the end of 1947, a contingent of analysts at the Air Technical Intelligence
 Center, ATIC, at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, believed that UFOs were extraterrestrial.
 And by the summer of 1948, that team prepared what they called an estimate of the situation,
 stating the extraterrestrial hypothesis.
 The response?
 The team was dispersed and reassigned.
 Yet thanks to FOIA and the courage of a few senior officials to go on the record, we have
 a collection of statements about UFOs that are so numerous as to be impossible to mention
 all of them here.
 But a few might give you an appropriate flavor of what I mean.
 Here is one from General Robert B. Landry, Air Force aide to President Harry S. Truman.
 Landry says in an oral history interview given about 40 years ago, "I was called one afternoon
 in 1948 to come to the Oval Office.
 The President wanted to see me.
 I was directed to report quarterly to the President after consulting with central intelligence
 people as to whether or not any UFO incidents received by them could be considered as having
 any strategic threatening implications."
 Landry went on to say that he continued to brief President Truman in conjunction with
 the CIA quarterly for the rest of the Truman presidency.
 That's no less than 16 briefings.
 We might want to know why a man as busy as President Truman was, why he would take the
 time out of his schedule to have so many meetings about UFOs, and yet we have no official transcript
 or record of those briefings.
 This is a statement from a top secret 1948 Air Force intelligence report called Analysis
 of Flying Object Incidents in the U.S., "The frequency of reported sightings, the similarity
 in many of the characteristics attributed to the observed objects, and the quality of
 observers considered as a whole, support the contention that some type of flying object
 has been observed.
 The origin of the devices is not ascertainable."
 And just two more quotations here I want to give you, an Air Force intelligence report
 from 1951 relating to an aerial encounter by a U.S. fighter pilot.
 "Described as flat on top and bottom and appearing from a front view to have round edges and
 slightly beveled," quite a bit of detail there, "no vapor trails or exhaust or visible means
 of propulsion described as traveling at tremendous speed."
 And one more quote from the early years, this one from a former head of the CIA, Roscoe
 Hillencutter, speaking in 1960, "Behind the scenes, high ranking Air Force officers are
 soberly concerned about UFOs, but through official secrecy and ridicule, many citizens
 are led to believe the unknown flying objects are nonsense."
 Now how much clearer a statement should responsible citizens, academicians, media, and political
 leadership require before demanding to get some reasonable answers as to what is going
 on behind the scenes in relation to the phenomenon of UFOs?
 Because the problem certainly did not end during the 1960s or 1970s or 1980s, but has
 continued to the present day.
 During the summer of 2002, just outside this city, over the town of Waldorf of Maryland,
 dozens of witnesses reported an incredible scene.
 Multiple jet fighters chasing multiple large unknown objects that were of blue and orange
 coloration.
 All the witnesses, two of whom I interviewed personally and several of whom spoke to national
 media, described the amazing performance and capability of these objects.
 The Air Force itself admitted that it had scrambled F-16s to investigate unknowns, which
 it also admitted it had tracked on at least one of these objects on radar.
 We also learned that the UFO simply disappeared from the radar.
 The Air Force conclusion was that it could have been "any number of things."
 Now perhaps we might like to know precisely which things.
 What blue object can descend at an 80 degree angle, stop, reverse course, and accelerate
 away from two F-16 jets near the nation's capital in post-9/11 America?
 It might be an interesting question to ponder.
 Over Chicago, O'Hare Airport.
 In November 2006, same kind of situation.
 A dozen United Airline employees, including at least one pilot while on the ground, saw
 a hovering disk-shaped object below the clouds.
 It then accelerated away so fast that it punched a hole through the cloud.
 United ordered its employees to silence, but one of them reported the event anyway.
 After denials by United and the FAA, both agencies were forced to acknowledge that indeed
 those people had made UFO reports.
 And again, we might ask, what might this have been over one of the busiest airports in the
 world and why the steadfast silence and denial?
 These are only some of the better known recent cases.
 There are, in fact, an overwhelming number of them.
 The two largest websites for collecting North American UFO reports, the National UFO Reporting
 Center and the Mutual UFO Network, have a combined total of well over 10,000 reports
 every year.
 Every year.
 Now, clearly many or most of these would turn out to be something prosaic if they were given
 an adequate investigation.
 But go through some of these reports.
 Many of them are truly incredible, and many of them have indeed received follow-up investigation.
 They are unexplained, and at least by our conventional wisdom, unexplainable.
 The combination of astonishing performance, powerful statements from selected senior officials,
 and unremitting silence and dismissal by our political establishment point to a problem.
 This is not merely the problem of cognitive dissonance.
 It is the problem of a political system in which the wheels have fallen off the machine.
 It is imperative, in the name of science and responsible public policy, that we get those
 wheels back on and begin a genuine, open investigation of this phenomenon.
 We demand, and deserve, answers from responsible officials who ought to be in the know.
 And if they're not in the know, we all need to investigate and find out just who is.
 Thank you.
 My name is Grant Cameron.
 I'm a private investigator.
 For the past 38 years, I have attempted to focus on what the highest levels of the U.S.
 government, military, and intelligence agencies know about the UFO phenomenon.
 I'm the director of the President's UFO website.
 As Steve Bassett mentioned, the Obama administration has come out with an official statement saying
 there is no ET evidence for an interaction with ET's and there is no cover-up.
 What I would like to do, based on my years of research, is present a few pieces of evidence
 which show that this statement, written by a low-level White House staffer, is ill-informed
 and not true.
 Mr. Dolan pointed out that President Truman had been briefed for five years orally on
 the subject of UFOs that does not appear in the official record.
 I'd like to add that Truman, on video, does make a statement stating, "Yes, we discussed
 it at every conference we had with the military.
 There are always things like that going on, flying saucers and other such things."
 In 1969, the U.S. government officially shut down its official UFO investigation, stating
 that there was no evidence that UFOs were extraterrestrial and therefore they were out
 of the business.
 If this were true, the government would have shut up and allowed the subject to fade into
 history.
 This is not, however, what happened.
 Only three years after shutting down their program, the U.S. Air Force, at the direction
 of the Secretary of the Air Force, contacted two documentary film producers who signed
 an official film contract at the Pentagon to do a documentary on UFOs.
 They were provided with a number of films and pictures, including a film of extraterrestrials
 landing at Holloman Air Force Base, of which they used eight seconds in the final production.
 They were given another film, marked "Top Secret," that was never returned and is still
 in their possession.
 The documentary was funded with $250,000 and they were asked not to source the funder of
 the money in the credits.
 A CIA agent was present through the entire production, and as Linda Howe can testify,
 she saw a letter to one of the producers from President Richard Nixon thanking him for his
 cooperation on the project.
 Former Senator Barry Goldwater wrote extensively on UFOs, such as in 1975 when he wrote about
 his friend General Curtis LeMay, who refused him access in 1964 to the Blue Room at Wright
 Patterson Air Force Base, where alien hardware and bodies were rumored to have been held.
 Goldwater wrote, "I made an effort to find out what was in that building at Wright Patterson
 Air Force Base, and I was understandably denied this request.
 It is still classified above Top Secret."
 As chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Goldwater continued to answer UFO letters,
 stating in one letter, "This thing has gotten so highly classified, it is impossible to
 get anything on it."
 In another letter, Goldwater wrote, "I have no idea who controls the flow of need to know
 because, frankly, I was told in such an emphatic way that it was none of my business that I've
 never tried to make it my business since."
 And finally, Goldwater wrote, "I have been interested in this subject for a long time,
 and I know that whatever the Air Force has on this subject is going to remain highly
 classified."
 Those waiting for the president to stand up and say ETs are here should know that that
 event occurred on June the 27th, 1981.
 Steven Spielberg stated that after the screening of ET, the extraterrestrial, in the White
 House Theatre, Reagan "just stood up and looked around the room, almost like he was doing
 a head count.
 And he said, 'I want to thank you for bringing ET to the White House.
 We really enjoyed your movie.'
 And then he looked around the room and he said, 'And there are a number of people in
 this room who know that everything on that screen is absolutely true.'"
 And Spielberg added, "And he said it without smiling."
 If you check the files of the Bush Library, you'll find nothing on UFOs.
 However, if you look at my files, you will find an audio of President Bush during the
 1988 campaign being asked about UFOs, in which he says, "I know some.
 I know a fair bit."
 Likewise, I have a video of Vice President Dan Quayle stating, "The alien situation is
 very interesting.
 We literally spent some time looking at this."
 In April 2001, I asked Vice President Dick Cheney if he had been ever briefed on the
 subject of UFOs while he was on the Diana Ream show here in Washington.
 Instead of Cheney stating that there were no credible ET evidence, Cheney replied, "If
 I had been briefed on that subject, it would probably be classified and I wouldn't be talking
 about it."
 Even President Obama has said things that run contrary to the statement put out by his
 own White House.
 This might be because neither he nor anybody in his office saw the petition on ET question
 despite the fact that over 12,000 people signed the petition addressed to the President.
 During a visit to Roswell, New Mexico in 2012, President Obama referred to the White House
 -- to the Roswell crash saying, "We're going to keep our secrets here."
 This raises the question, in light of the statement put out by his office that there
 is no ET cover-up, what secrets is President Obama referring to?
 Then during a White House tour, President Obama anticipated a question that actor Will
 Smith's son Jayden wanted to ask about the reality of extraterrestrials.
 When they arrived in the White House situation room, the President said to Jayden, "I know
 what you want to ask.
 You want to know about the aliens.
 I can neither conform nor deny that extraterrestrials have visited the Earth.
 But if they had, and if there had been a top-secret meeting on the subject, it would have occurred
 in this very room."
 Then there is the story of Area 51, covered by 19-time Emmy Award-winning investigative
 reporter George Knapp, who has spent years covering the story.
 Knapp stated that he has over two dozen witnesses who tell bits and pieces of a story of a captured
 live alien and extraterrestrial spacecraft that are being back-engineered on the Nevada
 test site.
 He has also revealed during interviews that he had a discussion with Senator Howard Cannon
 shortly before his death, and that Howard Cannon basically confirmed to him that he
 had talked to Goldwater and the stories were true.
 Knapp stated that six of his witnesses were threatened, which succeeded them from stopping
 them from going on camera.
 Finally, in July 2012, Chase Brandon, a 42-year veteran of the CIA, was a guest of the 2 million
 listeners of the overnight radio talk show called "Coast to Coast."
 His words on the ET cover-up were clear, as he referenced material he had seen at CIA
 headquarters.
 To quote Chase Brandon, "I absolutely know, as I sit here talking to you, that there was
 a craft beyond this world that crashed at Roswold, and that the military picked up the
 remains of not just a wreckage, but of cadavers.
 One hundred percent in my heart and soul," said Brandon, "Roswold happened.
 There was a craft and absolutely cadavers.
 I don't know where the stuff is, but I know that Roswold happened."
 Thank you.
 Thank you for inviting me here.
 As a retired nuclear physicist who has been studying the evidence about UFOs since 1958
 and since 1967 has given well over 700 lectures in all 50 states, 10 Canadian provinces and
 18 other countries, I've reached four major conclusions.
 One, the evidence is overwhelming that Earth is being visited by intelligently controlled
 extraterrestrial spacecraft.
 In other words, some, underlined 10 times, some UFOs are alien spacecraft.
 Most are not.
 Don't care about them.
 Two, there is no doubt that a small number of people within governments, both in the
 United States and overseas, have been actively covering up the truth about these visits.
 There really is a cosmic water gate.
 Three, there are no good arguments against these conclusions, only people who haven't
 studied the relevant evidence.
 And four, flying saucer visitations and the cosmic water gate represent the biggest story
 of the millennium.
 And I should say that I prefer the term flying saucer because all flying saucers are UFOs.
 Very few UFOs are flying saucers.
 All great-grandfathers are men, not all men are great-grandfathers.
 I'm interested in the flying saucers, not the UFOs.
 The basis for these conclusions, A, there are at least five large-scale scientific studies
 which provide substantial evidence.
 These include Project Blue Book Special Report Number 14, the largest study ever done for
 the United States Air Force, covering more than 3,200 cases with more than 200 charts,
 tables, graphs, and maps.
 It is quality evaluation, cross-comparison between unknowns and knowns.
 The official press release lied about the data, I'll document that in a minute, is almost
 never referenced by UFO debunkers.
 Dr. Carl Sagan, we were classmates at the University of Chicago, claimed there are interesting
 UFO sightings that are not reliable, and reliable UFO sightings that are not interesting.
 But there are no cases that are both reliable and interesting.
 This statement was not backed up by reference to data, but is directly contradicted by the
 Blue Book Special Report 14 data.
 It was found that the more reliable the case, the more likely to be unexplainable.
 United States Air Force Secretary Donald Quarles, in the very widely distributed press release
 when the 1955 study was completed, flat out lied, it's a strong statement and I'm sorry
 to make it, but it's true.
 He stated, "We believe that no objects such as those properly described as flying saucers
 have overflown the United States.
 Even the unknown 3% could have been identified as conventional phenomena or illusions if
 more complete observational data had been available."
 The fact of the matter in the report that he was talking about is that the unknowns
 comprise 21.5% of the cases completely separate from the 9.3% listed as insufficient information.
 The 3% number was a lie.
 Furthermore, a statistical comparison of the unknowns and knowns showed that the probability
 that the unknowns were just misknowns was less than 1%.
 It must further be noted that the press release did not give the title of the report or the
 company that did the work, Battelle Memorial Institute.
 If they'd given the title, surely some newsman would have said, "Hey, what happened to reports
 one through 13?"
 They'd never heard about them.
 The correct answer, had it been given, would have been that they were all classified.
 It's a very valuable source of information, this report.
 It's funny how the debunkers never talk about it.
 Another primary source of valuable data, which should be of interest to you all, are the
 congressional hearings of July 29, 1968, which included testimony from 12 scientists.
 The most important paper was by Dr. James E. McDonald, professor of physics at the University
 of Arizona.
 He had talked to 500 witnesses, but he presented 41 outstanding cases, including multiple witness
 radar visual sightings, sightings by pilots, by astronomers, by meteorologists.
 He noted physical trace cases of which, by now, more than 5,000 have been collected by
 Ted Phillips from 95 countries.
 They get dull, same thing was happening all over the world.
 Saucer is seen on the ground, it leaves, they find physical changes, happens here, it happens
 there, it happens everywhere.
 One-sixth of those cases involved reports of small beings associated with the craft
 while it was on the ground.
 I was the youngest contributor to those, and I think the only survivor since then, to those
 hearings in 1968.
 And I was the only one without a PhD, that might tell you something, I'm not sure what.
 The proceedings, incidentally, are still available online.
 One of the contributors was Dr. J. Allen Heineck, chairman of the astronomy department at Northwestern
 University, and for 20 years, United States Air Force scientific consultant to Project
 Blue Book.
 His book, The UFO Experience, a Scientific Inquiry, should be required reading by anybody
 who's going to talk about flying saucers, especially negatively.
 According to another source here, according to a special UFO subcommittee of the American
 Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, world's largest group of space scientists,
 30% of the 117 cases studied by the University of Colorado, government-sponsored study in
 the late '60s, and discussed in the Condon Report, Edward U. Condon, could not be identified,
 and yet the headline said, "Scientific study shows no UFOs."
 Totally untrue.
 There's a two-volume report called the UFO Evidence, which has loads of data, hundreds
 of cases that couldn't be identified.
 There's also the Commedia Report from France, which goes into numerous excellent officially
 involved cases in France.
 There are a dozen PhD theses about UFOs.
 One of them demonstrating how poor the press coverage has been.
 I haven't seen one about coverage by the scientific community or coverage by the political committee.
 That's another story.
 Anybody need a PhD thesis topic?
 There's two good ones.
 Also a third one, the will not to believe on the part of scientists.
 It's a sickness, a disease, if you will, infecting people who think they know all there is to
 know and don't.
 A really bad example of bias and ignorance appeared in Astronomy Magazine this month,
 May 2013, by Dr. Phil Plait.
 He does a blog, Bad Astronomy.
 The title of the article, believe it or not, is The Science Behind UFOs, it's a cover story.
 He somehow manages to mention none of the five large-scale scientific studies that I've
 just talked about, or any of the 5,000 physical trace cases, or any multiple witness radar
 visual cases, or abductions nor advanced technology studies at national labs and an industry showing
 trips to nearby stars in reasonable round-trip times using fusion propulsion are feasible.
 I worked on fusion back in the early '60s.
 To give you a form of reference, every star in the universe or multiverse produces its
 energy by nuclear fusion.
 That's what H-bombs are all about.
 And a good demonstration of the atom and the UFO together, if you will, is that in a very
 short period we managed to go from a 10-ton blockbuster, World War II, 1945, took a big
 B-29 to carry it.
 That was in 1944, in 1945, the first A-bomb, 15,000 tons of TNT, not 10.
 Seven years later, which is nothing, cost a lot of money, we set off the first fusion
 device, an H-bomb, called Mike, incidentally.
 It released the energy of 10 million tons of TNT.
 So you go from 10 to 15,000 to 10 million tons.
 And the Russians sent off one that was 50 million tons of TNT.
 The point is we know how to get to the stars if we want to spend the money.
 I'm not saying it's the ultimate technology.
 I'm saying scientific progress comes from doing things differently in an unpredictable
 way.
 The future is not an extrapolation of the past.
 You have to change how you do things.
 And what gets to me, having worked on fusion propulsion, fission propulsion, nuclear reactors
 for space applications, and all the rest of this, is that we tend to forget that if you
 make enough stupid assumptions, you can prove almost anything is impossible.
 One quick example, one astronomer in 1941.
 He was fed up with all the science fiction stuff about going to the moon.
 That was nonsense, he said.
 So he published a scientific, in quotes, paper calculating the required initial launch weight
 of a rocket able to get a man to the moon and back.
 Legitimate question, how big is it got to be?
 Pages of equations, he concluded it would have to weigh a million, million tons.
 It was off by a factor of 300 million.
 Proving if you make enough stupid assumptions, you can prove anything is impossible.
 So we have reason to be very careful when somebody says something is impossible.
 I have a whole book, it's impossible, isn't it, was going to be the title, but science
 was wrong is what the publisher decided on.
 I like the first one better, but anyway, let's look at another progression, not only in bombs.
 Ferdinand Magellan's ship, he didn't make it, but his ship did, went around the planet
 in three years, in 1523, three years, three years before the mast, you might say.
 Science fiction writers had going around the world in 80 days in the 19th century.
 The space station goes around the world in 90 minutes.
 Progress comes from doing things differently.
 A second problem I have found, I worked under security for 14 years for major companies
 like GE, GM, Westinghouse, McDonald Douglas, TRW systems, aerogenerals, nucleonics, I set
 a record for working on cancelled government sponsored research and development programs.
 Not intentionally, you understand.
 Another one of the false myths is that governments can't keep secrets.
 Two astronomers have demonstrated this, Dr. Seth Shostak of the SETI Institute, S-E-T-I,
 that stands for Silly Effort to Investigate, incidentally, that's another story which I've
 written about in the book, said you can prove that the government can't keep secrets by
 how badly FEMA fouled up with Katrina and how poorly the post offices operated.
 If you can see a connection between either of those things and governments keeping secrets,
 I sure can't.
 He didn't mention the CIA, the DIA, the NRO, the NSA and all those other alphabet soup agencies.
 Another great astronomer, Dr. Neil deGrasse Tyson, head of Hayden Planetarium, he said
 the proof that governments can't keep secrets is shown by how much we know about President
 Clinton's genitalia.
 Now if you can figure that one out you're better than I am.
 Now the proof, and I'll show some of this in my lecture Tuesday night, about government
 cover-up, it's not just an idle concept.
 If you wish you can get a hold of 156 top-secret Umbra NSA UFO documents.
 They're not very interesting because all you can read is one sentence per page.
 Everything else is whited out, not blacked out, they said that was too impressive on
 television when I used that, they told me this.
 And the reason is everything else is sources and methods.
 Twenty-eight percent sources and methods and two percent UFOs but it's filed under UFOs.
 Come on, that makes no sense.
 You can get a bunch of CIA, and I'll show some of these too, blacked out UFO documents.
 So highly redacted that you can read about six words per page.
 And my favorite thing, and it took me three years to get this, was one of the CIA UFO
 documents that says on the top, "Deny in Toto."
 They couldn't find six lousy words to declassify.
 Something's wrong here.
 I have to tell you, one minute, okay, I won't tell you, maybe I'll tell you that Tuesday
 night.
 One more thing, Air Force General Carroll Bolander stated that UFO reports which could
 affect national security.
 He was asked to look about what we should do about Project Blue Book, are not part of
 the Blue Book system.
 UFO reports which could affect national security are not part of the Blue Book system.
 Incredible statement.
 I located him, I talked to him on the phone, he verified there are two separate reporting
 channels.
 He never heard that from the Air Force.
 His job was to decide what to do about Project Blue Book, and it was canceled because of
 this memo.
 But the public never heard that he said, "Reports which could affect national security are not
 part of the Blue Book system."
 People are surprised.
 Just one more sentence here, two sentences.
 I've won several debates on UFOs.
 I've only had 11 hecklers and over 700 lectures.
 It's past time for the press, scientific and political communities to do their homework.
 And I should add at least three UFO crashes have occurred.
 You'll hear more about those later in these hearings.
 Thank you very much.
 Chairman Bartlett and distinguished Citizen Hearing on Disclosure panelists and my hearing
 colleagues, my name is Linda Moulton Howe.
 I grew up in Boise, Idaho where my father, Chet Moulton, was Director of Aeronautics.
 One of his friends was Kenneth Arnold, who reported the unidentified flying objects over
 Mount Rainier in June of 1947.
 And a local reporter then coined the phrase UFO, unidentified flying objects.
 I remember my father dismissed the idea of extraterrestrials altogether and that is the
 bias with which I grew up.
 I attended the University of Colorado in Boulder when I earned a cum laude Bachelor of Arts
 in English Literature.
 And I went on to Stanford University in California to earn a master's degree in communication
 producing documentary films for the Stanford Medical Center.
 My master's thesis film was about the Stanford Linear Accelerator's first efforts to have
 computers analyze subatomic particle bombardments.
 From Stanford I went to TV news at KNBC in Los Angeles where my beat was science, environment
 and medicine.
 Later I was honored at WCVB in Boston as a producer sharing the station's Peabody Award
 for Science and Medical Programming Excellence.
 Then I became Director of Special Projects at the Denver CBS affiliate, KMGH-TV.
 I produced, wrote, directed, edited and reported a dozen TV documentaries about several live
 issues in the Colorado area and produced studio shows about science, medical and environmental
 issues that earned three regional Emmys, one national Emmy nomination and several other
 documentary film awards.
 I stress this only to say that when people address the mainstream media and those that
 are professionals not paying attention to this very important issue, that is not true.
 Many of us have tried.
 One of my documentaries was an investigation of the strange bloodless, trackless mutilations
 of animals ranging from cattle and horses to goats, sheep, pigs and rabbits and even
 wild animals such as deer, elk and a marmot.
 Many of you may not know that the United States Forestry Department for decades has had photographs,
 I've seen them with my own eyes, of deer and elk with the ear, the eye, the tongue,
 the jaw flesh, the genitals and the rectum cored out, all bloodless, but that is also
 kept as a top secret unless a reporter like myself ends up getting a leak from somebody
 who is inside the forestry department and shows me the photos.
 Now these mutilations at the time that I was in Colorado in 1979 have been appearing in
 a series of repeated cycles since the early 1960s and I came to learn that they were not
 confined to Colorado, but they were all over the United States, Canada and other parts
 of the world.
 The first research interview that I did for that animal mutilation documentary was with
 former Logan County Sheriff Tex Graves.
 He told me bluntly on my first meeting with him, "The perpetrators of animal mutilations
 are creatures from outer space."
 But he would not go on the record in front of a camera and say those words for a public
 to see.
 He said, "You will have to get somebody else to tell you that truth."
 And in fact, a few ranchers told me about beams of light from rounder glowing objects
 in the sky that they had seen with their own eyes pick up cattle from a pasture or lure
 an animal to a pasture, dead with the same bloodless excisions.
 The beam transport would explain why there are no tracks, not even the animals own tracks
 around bodies that are found on dusty pastures that have no grass.
 The animals are found in what is equivalent to face powder with no tracks around a 2,000
 pound or 1,800 pound animal that has an ear, eye, tongue, jaw flesh, genitals and rectum removed
 without any blood.
 The documentary that I produced, A Strange Harvest, was awarded a regional Emmy.
 Home Box Office in New York City later contacted me to follow up on A Strange Harvest with
 an hour special for HBO with a working title, UFOs, the ET Factor.
 A contract was signed and New York attorney Peter Gerstin, who filed the first freedom
 of information request back at the end of the 1970s for information about UFOs and his
 filing went to the CIA, the NSA, the DIA, the NRO, and other military offices.
 He arranged for me to have a meeting at Curlin Air Force Base in Albuquerque.
 Mr. Gerstin had received correspondence from an agent at the U.S. Air Force Office of Special
 Investigations about a dramatic landing of a disk and humanoid entities at Ellsworth
 Air Force Base in South Dakota.
 I was to go to a meeting at Curlin Air Force Base and get the names, addresses, and phone
 numbers of some of the eyewitnesses of an exchange between our military security and
 something from this landed disk.
 But instead, the agent took out of a desk drawer pages, a document of sorts, and handed
 them to me saying, "My superiors have asked me to show this to you.
 You can read it.
 You can ask me questions, but you cannot have this paper."
 And he ordered me to sit in the middle of the room in order to read the document that
 he was handing me.
 Later, I learned that I had been both videotaped, audio taped, and photographed sitting in that
 chair reading that briefing paper and the responses and questions that I had to the
 AFOSI agent at the Curlin AFOSI office that day, April 9, 1983.
 The document had a title all caps on a front page, quote, "Briefing paper for the President
 of the United States on the subject of unidentified aerial craft."
 And in this document, the phrase unidentified aerial vehicles was also used, UACs and UAVs
 instead of UFOs.
 The document gave a history of the U.S. government's history of retrieval of crashed or landed
 craft in Roswell, Aztec, and Magdalena, New Mexico, northern Arizona, and northern Mexico
 south of Laredo, Texas, and a second series of one or more crashes in the Roswell area
 in 1949.
 The alleged presidential briefing paper also described information from a live extraterrestrial
 biological entity.
 The acronym is EBA, E-B-E, taken from a crash site near Roswell, New Mexico in 1949, two
 years after the historically famous 1947 July crashes of not disks, but my understanding
 is wedge-shaped craft that contained small humanoid bodies, both dead and alive.
 I was told that one of the first scientists brought in on autopsies of dead alien bodies
 was a herpetologist who studies snakes and reptiles.
 The skin and eyes of the nonhumans were described as scaled like a snake's body, and the eyes
 had vertical slit pupils beneath dark protective lenses.
 Since April 9, 1983, I have witnesses and physical evidence that support that alleged
 presidential briefing paper shown to me at Kirtland Air Force Base, and I have been reporting
 about the hardest facts and evidence that I have been able to muster as an investigative
 reporter since then for television, for radio, and for books that I have done.
 Today on April 29, 2013, 30 years later, as a longtime TV producer and investigative reporter
 who produces the science and environment website, earthfiles.com, and also reports monthly for
 premier radio networks broadcast of Coast to Coast AM in Los Angeles, I can, before
 you today, assert that the pressure of facts accumulated from military and intelligent
 eyewitnesses, from ranchers and pathologists, from pilots and astronauts, from fellow human
 experiencers in the UFO abduction syndrome, and from leaks by scientists and computer
 experts who have worked on back engineering extraterrestrial technologies extracted from
 non-human craft, there is no doubt that the United States government since World War II
 and the FDR and Truman administrations has known about the extraterrestrial interactions
 with earth and that their policies of denial in the alleged interest of national security
 are still in effect.
 My greatest challenge as a journalist is to get on the record what I am told by military
 and intelligence agents and other eyewitnesses on the record.
 National security in what is supposed to be a democratic government of, for, and by the
 people is not served by lies and secrecy.
 Every American and the whole world deserves the truth about non-humans past, present,
 and future interacting with this planet.
 Thank you.
 If I have done the time calculations correctly, we now have about five to six minutes for
 each of the six members of the committee to engage in questions with the panelists.
 As is my custom as a co-chair, I will reserve my questions till the end.
 I've always done that in the Congress.
 If my questions have been asked by my colleagues, I will simply thank the witnesses.
 So Mr. Dolan, I have a question, I wrote it, personal experience, have you had personal
 experience in this regard?
 I don't really know if any personal experience I've had is particularly noteworthy.
 On two occasions in my life, I saw what I think might be vaguely considered a UFO.
 Most interesting, many years ago with my son who was a small boy, I was holding his hand
 in a bright blue, perfectly blue sky, I saw an object that was quite unusual, brighter
 than anything I'd ever seen in the sky other than the sun and he was very small.
 He watched me staring at this thing, silent and wondering what happened to dad?
 And I turned to reassure him for one moment and I looked back literally one second later
 and the thing was gone.
 I have no idea what it was, that's really never been my motivation for studying this.
 I fell into this topic about 20 years ago while doing dissertation work on US national
 security circa 1950 and just stumbled into the topic of UFOs and I guess you could call
 it an obsession ever since.
 So why do you think, I mean I know it's opinion so we get this, why the steadfast silence
 and denial, what's the risk?
 I think the implications are vastly, very profound.
 If we try to rewind the clock 60 plus years back to the 1940s and just imagine, just pretend
 for the moment that it actually happened because many of us I think it did, that an event say
 at Roswell happened or maybe elsewhere or other types of grave violations of airspace
 were going on.
 If we think back to the very post World War II era, the world was in a state of flat on
 its back trying to get back, there were millions of homeless people around the world, people
 on the brink of starvation in the early Cold War.
 It was not a stable time and one would have to assume the last thing any president would
 be interested in doing would be to say to the world, well we have this other phenomenon
 here too.
 We don't know who these people are, we don't really know if they're friendly or hostile.
 How can you tell the world that you have this under control when you yourself don't really
 know the full implications of what this is?
 So I think the logical thing that would have been done and in particular if anything was
 recovered because this is key.
 If one of your top scientists or generals approaches you and says sir we've recovered
 this exotic technology that's not from our civilization and if you tell the world you
 have it, now you've got the specter of the Soviet Union, it becomes very difficult not
 to share this technology.
 The United States did not want to share atomic technology in 1947.
 Clearly why would they want to share something as exotic as ET technology or whatever.
 Well okay, but this is the 21st century now.
 Right, so what I think what happened is simply that secrecy becomes secret, it becomes profitable.
 It develops its own reason to be.
 It develops its own kind of logic and I also think that much of it has sort of gone away
 from formal government channels and seems to become increasingly privatized.
 So do I have time, any more time?
 Okay, one more quick question.
 Mr. Cameron, six witnesses threatened.
 How were they threatened and who threatened them?
 I'll give you an example of a couple of the witnesses.
 One witness was a woman who was a Steno for a military contractor who had been involved
 in discussions when it appears material was being moved from Wright-Patterson Air Force
 Base to Area 51.
 She was in on these meetings and she had agreed to go on camera with George Knapp after the
 story started to break in 1989, she was visited by two officers the same day she was going
 to go on camera and they said we just want to remind you, you have a security clearance,
 you're still under oath.
 We know that you and your daughter travel back and forth between Las Vegas and Los Angeles.
 There's a lot of desert out there.
 We would not want to have something happen in the desert.
 George Knapp told me personally this woman is so scared that 20 years later she's still
 will not talk about it.
 They had witnesses at Nellis Air Force Base, the golf instructor at Nellis Air Force Base,
 the golf pro, the guy who did the taxes for the generals.
 They had gotten to know all the generals and had been told the stories about the fact that
 the crafts were at Area 51, this is all for true.
 One of the key witnesses is a guy by the name of Alfred O'Donnell who the Appropriations
 Committee at Congress actually tried to talk to this guy.
 He was one of the highest ranking people at Area 51.
 George Knapp had a number of witnesses and he figured that he wanted to track down this
 Alfred O'Donnell, figured if anybody knew if the Area 51 crash saucer stories were true
 it would be Alfred O'Donnell.
 He got to know him, he got to be sort of friends.
 He said he basically stalked this guy because this guy would know and basically went to
 the guy's house, he's an expert on nuclear weapons from 1947 on, wired a lot of the first
 nuclear weapons, and he was showing him test site photographs from the nuclear stuff and
 then he closed the book.
 He said, "You didn't come here to talk about that, did you?"
 And George said, "No, I didn't come here to talk about that."
 He said, "You came here to talk about UFOs, didn't you?"
 And George said, "Yeah, that's why I'd like to know about it."
 And he said, "Well," and George said, "It took six months to get this guy to talk."
 And the guy bit by piece, he wasn't allowed to tape, he wasn't allowed to take notes,
 and in the end he basically said, "Yes, it's true."
 Area 51, we have the saucers there and George said, "Weren't you afraid that the story would
 get out?"
 He said, "No, we were afraid it would get out."
 He said, "What do you mean?
 You had an alien, it came all this way, you kept it captive."
 He said, "We didn't know what to do with it, we couldn't communicate with it."
 That is one of the highest level guys at the Area 51 site, is still alive, and a man who
 knows the whole story.
 >> Thank you, Ms. Kilfetrick.
 >> A few things, thank you very much for your testimony, very, very good, very good.
 Mr. Freeman, you were going to answer or add something to what Congressman Woolsey said,
 I'll give you that opportunity for a minute of my time if you'd like.
 >> Okay, I was going to recite six reasons for--
 >> Probably can't do six in a minute, give me a minute.
 >> Oh, sure you can, you want to figure out how the saucers work, you worry about the
 other guy figuring out how the saucers work, you worry about if an announcement would be
 made that the younger generation would push for an earthling orientation if we're told
 the planet's being visited, no government including ours wants that.
 We have the problem of Pat Robertson saying all the UFO stuff is the work of the devil,
 and all the intelligent life in the universe is here on planet Earth, I take issue with
 that.
 Finally, we have two special things, if they're coming here, some people say it's going to
 upset our whole technology, they've got things that will get rid of the oil industry, the
 car industry, plane industry, economic chaos.
 >> Reclaiming my time, thank you sir, thank you very much.
 Mr. Cameron, you mentioned that you are, and I'm assuming it's currently the President's
 Director of the President's UFO website, are you currently that?
 >> Yes.
 >> And that means for President Obama?
 >> No, I have a website that basically, my experience was I had a sighting, everybody
 was interested, but I basically wanted to find out who knew what was going on.
 I went up the chain of command, figured the President's the most powerful guy, this is
 one of the most important subjects, what does the President know?
 So what I've done, I have a website that accumulates all the stories of what the various Presidents
 have said, rumored stories and sightings, so that's what I've done, I have a site that
 deals with the Presidents and the subject of UFOs.
 >> Okay, so that's where I wanted you to explain that, first of all.
 So then does any of the Presidents, and what year did you establish that?
 Was that established?
 The website?
 >> It goes back about 15 years.
 >> Okay, so then the Presidents there, there are three or four, President Clinton, President
 Bush, one and two.
 >> I have the stories from all the Presidents.
 >> And do they acknowledge the website and have given you any support, or is it just
 like ooh, you can't talk about it?
 >> I've got no interaction with the White House, they have been on the site a few times,
 but no interaction.
 >> Okay, so it's for information for people of the world to access?
 >> For the public, because there's a lot of rumored stories, and I don't really say this
 is true, that's not true.
 There's a lot of rumored stories about various Presidents who have seen UFOs, what they've
 said about UFOs, and basically I just put it down so everybody can look at it.
 >> Okay, that's good information, we need that.
 Thank you, ma'am.
 It's always one woman that comes through for everything that we do, so we thank you for
 your different point of view and all of that as well.
 What do you do with all that information?
 You've seen it, you've read it in the middle of a room and photographed and all of that,
 what do you do?
 I mean, everybody becomes, we've got nuclear scientists and all of that at the table, are
 you frustrated?
 I mean, what are we going to do with this?
 It's a world phenomena, you all know better than I, we're kind of neophytes here except
 for the scientists here, you know, what do you do with it?
 Things like we're doing today in urgent Congress since 1968 has not had a hearing to do something
 else about it in the science committee that they did some 40 plus years ago, comment?
 >> My beat has always been science, environment, and medicine, it never changed.
 And it was getting into the animal mutilations and having the shock of law enforcement tell
 me that the perpetrators were creatures from outer space that was quite stunning.
 I did feel like I was Alice in Wonderland going through a mirror into a completely different
 reality than what we live in our nine to five daily lives.
 I produced the documentary that had a large broadcast in Colorado and the surrounding
 states in 1980, May 25th, 1980 called A Strange Harvest.
 And after that as a professional working as director of special projects at the CBS station,
 I went on to do astronaut training in Colorado, Martin Marietta, and a thousand other subjects
 over the last 30 some years.
 >> So you are documented, you are, obviously people call on you so you're verified, by
 the way, the couple of the documentaries that you mentioned, are they available for our
 committee to each of us?
 >> Yes, all of my work is at my news website, earthfiles.com.
 It's always there, it's always available, I've done four books, several documentaries
 of which two are there.
 >> Which one or two would you give us, we can't read ten.
 >> A Strange Harvest.
 >> Okay, I wrote that.
 >> And A Strange Harvest, 1993.
 And those are the videos I would give you, the books too, that's an Alien Harvest, Glimpses
 of Other Realities, Volume One and Two, and Mysterious Life.
 >> Okay, but if we Googled your name we'd see all of that perhaps, right?
 >> Yes, earthfiles.com.
 >> And the only reason I'm rushing because five minutes goes quickly, I don't know if
 I'm out of time.
 >> Thirty seconds.
 >> Thirty seconds.
 Thank you for coming.
 >> Thank you.
 >> Okay.
 >> Thank you.
 >> Since, we're waiting for an answer of the next witness.
 >> With all due respect, let me correct, I pronounce it within my family Gravel.
 >> Gravel.
 >> It's a French name.
 >> Thank you.
 >> I want to associate my thoughts with Chairman Bartlett when he made the statement that it's
 the height of human arrogance to think that we are the only sentient human beings in the
 galaxies of the world that can think, that's human arrogance at its worst.
 What I'm struck with, with the testimony of all four of you and of course the readings
 that we had with preparing for this hearing, is the fact of secrecy itself, you know, why
 do we need this secrecy?
 And I'm asking this question to all four of you, what threats do you think exist to the
 national security that warrants this kind of security, this kind of an approach?
 Please.
 >> I started to say before, I can see six reasons for our government and other governments
 to keep things classified.
 First you want to figure out how they work, they make wonderful weapons delivery and defense
 systems and with the Cold War going on, if you do have wreckage and you want to figure
 out something, you're not going to want to tell your enemies.
 The second problem is what if they figure out how they work before you do?
 You don't want them to know, you know, they know, weapon, counter weapon, counter, counter
 weapon, we've been playing this game a long time.
 The third problem is if there were an announcement, I say by highly trusted individuals it's a
 little hard to find them around the planet, but my favorite odd couple is the Pope and
 the Queen.
 They're about the same age or they were until recently anyway.
 If they were to make an announcement that indeed UFOs are visiting, the planet's being
 visited, what would happen?
 Church attendance would go up, mental hospital admissions would go up, the stock market would
 go down, but I think based on 600 college lectures at the younger generation, which
 unlike me and probably you wasn't alive when there wasn't a space program.
 There was strong sentiment against space travel back not too many years ago.
 The younger generation would push for an earthling orientation.
 Let's face it from an alien viewpoint, we are all earthlings, Terrans as the science
 fiction writers would say.
 I know of no government on this planet that wants its people to owe their allegiance to
 the planet instead of that individual government.
 As far as I can tell, nationalism is the only game in town.
 There are some religious problems, extremists who say we're the only intelligent life in
 the universe and their followers don't want any part of visitors from outer space.
 He can't be.
 Planet was created in 4004 BC instead of 4 billion in 4 BC.
 A final thing, I have 7 times heard of cases in which pilots were scrambled to chase UFOs.
 There was a regulation issue, shoot them down if they don't land when instructed to do so
 when 7 pilots didn't come back.
 These were quiet discussions, these were not big public things.
 And if I've heard 7, there are a lot more cases like that.
 There were 200 fatal military plane crashes between 1951 and '56, including 5 where the
 pilots had over 100 missions in Korea where there were MiGs trying to shoot them down.
 That's a pretty good pilot to survive that.
 Comes back to the United States, no MiGs and his plane, as the New York Times said, disintegrated
 or disappeared, two strange terms to use in this context.
 So no families were told anything about that.
 And it won't come as a shock to you, but there were 166 Air Force guys on board reconnaissance
 planes that were tickling North Korea, Russia, and China right after the war.
 See how quickly the radar came on, what frequency they used and all that sort of stuff.
 166 wind up in planes that were shot down.
 Not one word in public about that.
 Families were not told until 2001 where a meeting was called and the medals were given
 out and an explanation was given.
 I say that only because a lot of people think, well, certainly they would have told the families
 those 7 planes.
 So that's an area of concern, I think, to admit that we can't do anything about these
 guys.
 But powerlessness is not something that attracts people to government.
 >> May I add a very quick follow-up in not taking a lot of time?
 I talked earlier about why I think that the possession of certain radical technology would
 have initiated some of the secrecy.
 Also, I think the need to maintain some level of social control, not knowing what these
 other beings were, at least in the early years.
 But I think what happens is once a secret goes on for long enough, it becomes a real
 nightmare to kind of contain.
 I can only imagine the difficulty that President Obama would face if he were somehow to make
 this announcement.
 I mean, really.
 If he were to -- if something were to force him to make an admission that, yes, these
 UFOs, apparently at least some of them are real, what does he then say at this press
 conference?
 I know what he'd like to say, which is, well, thanks everyone, I'm going on a vacation for
 about six months.
 Because there are a lot of follow-up questions that would be, frankly, very uncomfortable
 for him to deal with.
 I think one of the questions that most responsible journalists would want to ask is how on earth
 were you guys able to keep this secret for over 60 years?
 How did you do it?
 And the implications for getting into that whole issue are a nightmare.
 Was it you starting to deal with, has there been some level of control over the mainstream
 major media academic community?
 In fact, there are many off-the-shelf academic studies that show intelligence community influence
 over our major journalism and over our major academic communities.
 It's not a big secret.
 It's a longstanding relationship.
 But there would be some very deep questions to ask about that, about the nature of special
 access programs and unacknowledged special access programs and the primordial black budget.
 All of these would now become the target of citizen inquiry.
 And I believe firmly that an admission on this topic, in addition to all of the scientific
 and existential issues that it raises, also gets into just some nasty concrete political
 issues that I don't think any presidential administration would want to have to deal
 with.
 And I could add to that, from leaked sources, military and intel that I have encountered
 in my career, there is a complexity that as you go deeper beyond lights in the sky craft,
 a government interest in back engineering technology.
 There is testimony from, for example, someone who had worked at Wright-Patterson in the
 medical department who has told me, and this is a historic fact as far as I know, that
 one of the first autopsies that were done from one of the crashes in Roswell in 1947,
 and that was not the beginning.
 We had been retrieving craft and bodies from at least 1941 in Cape Girardeau, Missouri.
 But in terms of Roswell, one of the bodies, when the surgeon took a scalpel to start a
 T or a Y section on the autopsy, the report was this is not tissue.
 It was fabric.
 And that in 1947, our government was discovering that they weren't probably dealing with the
 prime intelligence that was behind the craft, that they were dealing with something that
 would fall into the area of androidism.
 Today we have drones that are overflying the world.
 Back in 1947, our government came to understand that some of the bodies that they were taking
 from these craft were not even biological tissue as we understand it.
 And then you combine that with a sentence that I read in the alleged briefing paper
 that I was shown at Curlin Air Force Base in the OSI office, the quote which has never
 left my mind.
 These extraterrestrial biological entities manipulated DNA and already evolving primates
 to create Homo sapien, close quote.
 Then that suggests that the relationship between what is in the skies, on the ground, underground
 and interacting with humans and animals and plant life on this planet, as one man working
 for the DIA in retirement told me, Linda, we are convinced that the intelligence interacting
 with this planet has been here for more than 270 million years predating the dinosaurs.
 If the size and the scope of this is that large, and if our government began to stumble
 on to these facts piece by piece in World War II and after, then I can understand why
 President Truman and Churchill and Eisenhower and that group of people would have said let's
 wait two generations until we find out what we're dealing with.
 And what makes me nervous and what bothers me is why in 2013 is the policy of denial
 not only in effect, but the people that I am talking to on the phone have visits by
 somebody from the government saying you are not to talk to Linda Moulton Howe ever again.
 Something is very wrong in the underbelly of this country that I think is related directly
 to a policy of denial from World War II about the fact that extraterrestrial biological
 entities, to use our government's own phrase in its own alleged documents, are interacting
 with this planet have been for centuries and that there is an intimate relationship between
 what we are and what they made and that might explain why there is no wholesale evidence
 anywhere that the non-humans want to kill humans.
 They want, it appears from my point of view as an investigative reporter talking with so
 many people, that there is an ongoing research program about what is happening on this planet
 in the surface life on earth.
 We are now running about 10 minutes late.
 Pardon me.
 Yes, I understand that time is slipping away.
 Several of my questions have been asked.
 I hope that that is true for the next two witnesses so that their question period may
 be shorter.
 Congressman Cook.
 I would like to claim my five minutes, Chairman, if that is all right.
 I would like to ask Grant Cameron, maybe the first question, and if the others have a comment,
 be very happy to take those two and Mr. Cameron, take a minute, but the others maybe ten seconds
 if they have something to add.
 I think you are the one that talked about five years of hearings for President Truman.
 Briefings, yes.
 And many, well, I know that Mr. Dolan also mentioned this.
 I guess 16 different, did you say 16 different?
 We figure between 16 and 20 briefings.
 Okay.
 Is it possible the Truman administration was concerned at the time more about either the
 Soviet Union, which you did mention, I think, Mr. Dolan, or Nazi Germany as a source of
 some of the unidentified flying maneuvers they were watching and reporting on and being
 very concerned about?
 I think it is basically the minute they looked at the Roswell crash, if that was the first
 crash, they saw technology.
 It's classified.
 End of game.
 This is, you're not giving this to the Soviets, you're not giving it to the Chinese.
 This is our type of technology.
 On Thursday, I'll refer to a Canadian government document, 1950, where the Canadians went to
 the United States, talked to American officials, and one of the things that they were told
 is that mental phenomena was involved with the saucers.
 So there's a lot of technology here, and you just have to think, are you going to give
 the technology that you may hear this week at this session, are you going to give it
 to Al-Qaeda, are you going to give it to the Chinese?
 To me, it was simple that Truman and the people around Truman saw technology.
 We need this.
 This is unbelievable technology, and whoever gets this technology rules the world.
 We're not giving it away.
 It's classified.
 End of the story, and that's how it has started, and that's how it's been maintained.
 Let me just add, sir, to answer your question relating to the Soviets and Nazis and so forth.
 In the early era of this, these types of questions were being asked.
 They absolutely were.
 The question is, because you have different levels of security, and the declassified documents
 that we have, really the top secret and above, we have very few of those.
 So the declassified documents that are available to citizens are of the level of secret and
 confidential and restricted.
 Lower levels, they're still important, but they're not typically the very few that are
 actually of top secret.
 And I think that this is significant, because what has come to us are some lower-level classified
 debates over the nature of these, and many of those did focus on, did the Soviets create
 a flying saucer with their cache of German scientists?
 Did we do this?
 In those documents, I have seen no significant evidence to point to the Soviets or our own
 German scientists.
 Okay.
 Before I invite maybe 15 seconds from both Mr. Friedman and Ms. Howe, could you also
 comment on the testimony here that hasn't really said a whole lot.
 It was mentioned briefly, but a whole lot about sightings before the 1940s, before the
 Second World War.
 I mean, did we...
 I know you mentioned that there have been credible sightings for many, many years before,
 but we really don't get a whole lot of interest on the part of an administration until the
 '40s.
 Doesn't that add a little bit of question in terms of whether what we've just been talking
 about might have been a real concern for the number of hearings being held?
 I can add one thing.
 What happened in July of 1945, we tested a bomb, white sands, and then we dropped two
 in August on Japan.
 And I believe that that action, which was a nuclear event, became a focus to this intelligence,
 and therefore that's how the government became so intensely aware.
 Can I add?
 Sure.
 I've done...
 The presidents, I spent a lot of time trying to find stories of UFOs back in history through
 presidents.
 It starts in Roosevelt's day.
 It ties into the atomic bomb.
 If you go through presidential history, presidents are watched very closely, all their records
 are kept.
 I can find nothing before Roosevelt.
 So this is tied into the atomic...
 Okay, but you're not saying, Mr. Cameron, are any of you saying that President Wilson
 would have never been interested in phenomena that might involve extraterrestrials?
 I think the difference is that we really only in our own society develop much of a capability
 of detecting them.
 I mean, in World War II, we get radar, so we develop electronic means of detection.
 We, for the first time ever, have a lot of people in the air.
 So I think in earlier times, it's not that this phenomenon didn't happen, but there were
 fewer stories and not really in front row center of our consciousness.
 By the end of World War II, there were three things that told our visitors from out there
 that soon we'd be going out there, which would scare the heck out of them because we're such
 a primitive society.
 Dark bombs, powerful rockets used to kill, not to deliver the mail, as some people said
 they would, and powerful radar at the beginning of the electronics revolution.
 The only place in the world in July 1947 where you could check out all three of those was
 southeastern New Mexico, which is where Roswell is.
 I'm going to reclaim just the last 30 seconds if I can, too, and again, if you'll take just
 maybe a quick yes or no.
 In your views, is it possible that if there indeed is such thing as extraterrestrial,
 unidentified flying objects, that they would be more likely to be artificial intelligence
 instead of normal intelligence, given timescales of travel near a star, what, two to three
 light years away, for example?
 I think artificial intelligence is an extremely valid hypothesis I've entertained for many
 years.
 I think they would be the product of an advanced ... I mean, we're less than a generation away
 from having our computers talking to us and claiming possibly to be sentient themselves.
 This is what AI theorists, and they're all mainstream people, is a very common belief,
 so I have to assume that some other civilization will have gotten to that point.
 A confirmed physicist working on ring lasers at Wright-Patterson told me in the 1990s that
 he had firsthand knowledge about the extraterrestrial story, and that he, as a physicist in the
 work that he was doing, that they knew, meaning the people that are involved with studying
 the phenomena in the government, that we are dealing with technology so advanced that they
 literally can bend space-time and move point to point through the universe.
 That physicist from Wright-Patterson, at a table, used what is now a metaphor generally
 in this whole subject.
 He took the napkin on the lunch table, and he put it and said, "Linda, this is what they
 do."
 He put one point, and he did like this.
 This is space-time.
 We're dealing with technologies that can bend space-time and put the corner to the corner.
 That is why Euclidean geometry and time, as we know it on this planet, have no relevance
 to the phenomena and the intelligence that we're dealing with.
 Thank you.
 Time does have some relevance for us, and we are running late.
 There are two left.
 I'm sorry.
 That'll be a stretch.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Thanks for all of you for testifying.
 Question.
 Has there been a decrease in the number of incidents that have happened, at least in
 this country, or because it seemed like this was talked about a lot, and there were a lot
 of sightings at some time, whether it was over the Prairie State, but that seems ... You
 don't read about it very much today.
 That's the kicker.
 It's not a question of how much is going on.
 It's how much do we hear about it.
 I check most of my audiences at the end of my lecture.
 I don't have guts enough to do it at the beginning, and find that 10 percent of the attendees
 believe they've seen a flying saucer, but then I ask, how many of you reported what
 you saw?
 Ninety percent of the hands go down.
 MUFON, the Mutual UFO Network, is getting over 600 reports a month.
 You don't hear about most of those cases, where the public's grown accustomed, I guess,
 or the media's unwilling to get involved.
 How many UFO reporters do you know?
 I know of two competent journalists who are really into UFOs.
 That's an awful small number, George Knapp being one.
 What about in other countries?
 Are they reported, or is that-
 I find sightings everywhere.
 The sightings are very common, but what isn't uniform are proper distribution networks or
 reporting systems that are in place.
 What we've developed here in the US are a number of websites that collect reports.
 As I mentioned earlier, my estimate is a rough one, but it's not less than 10,000 reports
 actually are written by people per year, 10,000 in North America, the US and Canada.
 Elsewhere in the world, there are obviously many sightings.
 They're increasing, they're not decreasing, because people are now having better capabilities
 of reporting these.
 One of the problems with under less developed nations elsewhere in the world in years past
 is just if you saw a UFO, who do you report it to?
 There was really no mechanisms to do it.
 That's improving now, so now we're seeing reports out of China, India, Africa, and really
 around the world, but still there aren't- there's not a lot of infrastructure among
 civilian groups, for example, who really would be the ones that publicize this to get the
 word out.
 You have your YouTube channels and people doing this on their own.
 What really I think is needed is a kind of coordinated global kind of organizational
 effort, and hopefully we'll get that.
 Another problem is language.
 I am constantly confronted with the issue that something happens in China or South America
 or a country that does not speak English.
 I'm an American journalist trying to report so that an American audience can understand.
 I have worked sometimes for an entire week just trying to find a reporter in China or
 someplace who could help me do a translation so that it could get closer to first-hand
 facts.
 It is so difficult.
 We're on a planet and where communication is basically blocked, whether it is country
 to country or even neighborhood to neighborhood in China, because the syntactical differences
 in the language there are so overwhelming that a man I know who lives there, works there
 from England, who tries to help, you still have translation problems there within very
 short distances.
 And so you take that to this complex phenomena.
 I know for a fact every month across my desk and in my computer world, hundreds and hundreds
 and hundreds of reports coming from around the world.
 How do we follow up unless we have translators and an open government policy around the world
 where people feel that they can report honestly what they've encountered without some sort
 of retribution by the government, which is distinctly the way it is working in the United
 States, or criticism from fellow human beings?
 Humans are more afraid of ridicule and criticism from humans than they are of nonhumans.
 Can I just make a point that I made in my presentation, which sort of sums this up.
 The problem is the coverage.
 It's not how many sightings there are.
 The more people are covering it, the more sightings you're going to get.
 Basically it comes down to the story of Chase Brandon.
 Chase Brandon was identifying himself as the second most powerful person in the CIA outside
 the director to speak publicly on behalf of the CIA.
 He was the liaison for CIA to Hollywood.
 He could speak publicly on behalf of the CIA.
 He comes out in front of two million people and says, "I saw the files.
 I saw a box.
 Roswell was real.
 There was aliens.
 This is for real."
 And nobody covered the story.
 It's as simple as that.
 It's just not being covered.
 Thank you.
 Thank you very much.
 As I had anticipated, most of my questions have been asked.
 There was lots of discussion on why a cover-up.
 Congressman Cook asked a question.
 There wasn't a lengthy discussion of it, and that is there have been a number of sightings
 before anybody had an airplane or a lighter than aircraft in the air, and I think that
 people need to understand that this is not just a current day.
 As our technology has developed, the sightings have become more frequent, but there have
 been sightings way back in history.
 Am I not correct?
 Correct.
 That is absolutely correct.
 Okay.
 I just wanted that to be on the record.
 By the way, extraterrestrials are not anti-biblical.
 If you read the book of Job, you should expect them.
 Maybe they can't get here, but they sure got to heaven as far as the book of Job is concerned.
 You can read about them there.
 The one question I had which wasn't answered, and I would like you don't have to give an
 answer now because time is up, but I would like for the record for you to tell us how
 many unexplained sightings out there.
 Now, lots of these things can be kind of wished away and explained away to people that get
 on a craft.
 They could have rehearsed their lies so that they now, under hypnotism, tell you the same
 lie.
 But there are some things that just can't be explained away.
 How many sightings have there been, unexplained sightings, that have been accompanied by radar?
 Sightings are easy, lights and clouds and so forth, and that can behave in very erratic
 ways.
 But, you know, how many of these sightings have been accompanied by radar tracks?
 If you could provide that from the record, it's not just a few, I understand.
 It's a great many of those.
 But I think the public would be very interested in how many unexplained sightings out there
 have been accompanied by radar where these objects were doing things that no known Earth
 craft can do.
 You can provide that for the record?
 We can try.
 We don't know, and we also know that such reports are carefully covered up to use the
 expression.
 But I've seen some reference to those things.
 Do the best you can, because I think the public would like to know.
 Of publicly known, there have to be more than 100, probably several hundred, if we were
 to tally them together.
 And there presumably are many that just are classified.
 But there are quite a few that we do know about that have been declassified or that
 came out one way or another.
 There's quite a few.
 I don't know about thousands.
 If you could give some indication, it's not just one or two, some indication so that the
 public can know how many of those.
 This has been a very interesting hearing.
 Thank you very much.
 The hearing will now stand in brief recess.
 Thank you very much.
