 >> I have to repeat after me, I do hereby affirm.
 >> I do hereby affirm.
 >> That I will tell the truth.
 >> That I will tell the truth.
 >> And nothing but the truth.
 >> And nothing but the truth.
 >> To the members of this committee today.
 >> To the members of this committee today.
 >> Thank you.
 >> We did it right there.
 >> Yeah, we did it.
 >> All right, Mr. Cameron.
 >> Okay, I had prepared a first statement, but I have a little bit of comment
 and a short second statement that I wanted to sort of add as part two.
 There was some discussion here about doing an audit on the military,
 and because I've spent a lot of time on this, basically the way I see it,
 it's very simple, the military has the power, Congress doesn't.
 It'd be the same as the war between the President and Congress who has power.
 They have the power right now, and I think you have to take it back.
 They're not going to give it to you.
 They're not going to surrender and allow you to audit them,
 because they're running the show, and that's the way they want it.
 A second comment I'd like to make is regarding the same sort of issue about military,
 because I was involved in the Area 51 story.
 I knew George Knapp, who was the chief investigative reporter.
 He told the story about the Appropriations Committee in Congress had wanted,
 when they heard the story about the flying saucers at Area 51 and the Aurora and all sorts
 of planes that were flying around Area 51 that the Appropriations Committee were going
 like, "What is going on here?
 We haven't heard about this.
 Did we put money up for this?"
 They sent Dick DiMatto, who was a congressional investigator, to Area 51 to get inside Area 51.
 He had all the top security clearances.
 He had everything that you needed.
 He could give people immunity, and he went in there, and he tried to talk to this one witness
 that I mentioned to you in the previous panel, this Alfred O'Donnell fellow who refused to talk,
 and he came back, and Stephen Greer can confirm this.
 He talked to a number of researchers, and he told Stephen Greer,
 "I just want to let you know you're up against the varsity team
 of all black budget programs.
 Good luck."
 And he said with top security clearance, with Appropriations Committee behind him,
 he could not get anywhere, that this thing is so deeply held.
 And that's basically what Ben Rich said as well, is that it would take an act of God
 to get this thing out of Congress, because it's so deep black.
 Even though they have the technology, nobody's ever going to see it as far
 as the military is concerned.
 And I would also comment on the foreign government thing.
 I have a little bit of a disagreement with most people, because I am from Canada,
 and the idea is that the rest of the world is disclosing material.
 I'd say they are not disclosing material.
 They are releasing their siting files.
 Siting files is what the U.S. government released with Blue Book in 1969.
 Siting reports are just garbage.
 They're just stuff that's there.
 What you want to see is you want to see the top secret material,
 the interaction between government and military, and it still comes down,
 if you look at Britain, for example, Britain now,
 the story is they're bringing out their files.
 They're just dumping their files so they can get out of the UFO business.
 Margaret Thatcher said, when she was asked in 1997,
 you must make sure you get the facts correct and you can't tell the people.
 That's basically the rule around the world.
 It comes down to military technology, and I think a lot of the governments
 of the world are basically playing the same game that they're trying
 to protect the military stuff and release the core story or release the siting files.
 The little short statement, I'll try to keep it short, what I wanted
 to read was the fact that even though we're looking at a lot of secrecy,
 there was people inside the Clinton administration who actually did try
 to get this material out.
 They were trying to shake this.
 Bill Clinton, for example, had done some work with John Podesta, and he actually,
 in 2005 in Hong Kong, Bill Clinton actually was talking about this in public,
 and he stated that the vast majority of the people
 in the Clinton administration believed the story of Area 51.
 They believed there was a live alien.
 They believed there was a craft underground, and then Bill Clinton actually went there
 to try to get to the bottom of this thing, and he stated in 2005,
 after mentioning this, he said, "I'm probably not the first president they kept
 in the dark or that bureaucrats have tried to wait out."
 So Clinton tried to get to these materials.
 He told Paul Davids that he was fascinated with the subject of UFOs,
 and he was very interested in the latest Roswell book that had come
 out that was given to him at that time, and Bill Clinton had actually,
 as we look back in the files, Bill Clinton had actually given a job to Webster Hubbell.
 The job he said to Webster, according to Webster Hubbell's book,
 Fence in High Places in 1997, Hubbell said that Bill told him,
 "If I put you over there in justice, I want you to find out the answer to two questions.
 Number one, are there UFOs, and number two, who killed JFK?"
 So Bill Clinton was a guy who didn't believe the official stories of the UFO
 or of the JFK stuff, and he actually sent someone
 to try to get the answers to this material.
 One of Bill Clinton's main, this is sort of being overlooked here,
 one of Bill Clinton's main allies in this effort to try to get material,
 it was John Podesta, and he and John Podesta actually did try to get a lot
 of classified material out into the public.
 It was the Executive Order 12958, which was signed in 1995,
 and it introduced a 25-year rule which hoped to bring
 to light many hidden secrets inside government like the UFO issue.
 What was sought was a proper balance of openness in government
 versus what Podesta called unthinking secrecy.
 Podesta stated, "Our founders knew that democracy cannot function
 in the absence of public information."
 He noted the importance of balancing the vital interests of national security
 with the genuine claims of public openness.
 "For two centuries, we have prospered and won in the United States
 because at our best, we have found a way to do both."
 So to achieve this, they signed the Executive Order which said that anything
 that was over 25 years old had to be declassified except in extreme circumstances.
 What basically happened was that between 1995 and 2000,
 the Clinton administration was able to declassify 800 million pages
 of documents compared to 188 million pages in the previous 15 years.
 Unfortunately, the sought-after UFO documents that the Clintons wanted released
 with this material never materialized.
 And then in 2002, Podesta who went on to work for the Obama administration stated
 in a public statement at a sci-fi conference, "I think it's time to open the books
 on the questions that have remained in the dark,
 on the questions of government investigations of UFOs.
 We ought to do it because it's right.
 We ought to do it because the American people can handle the truth,
 and we ought to do it because it's the law."
 Another ally in getting openness regarding UFOs inside the Clinton administration was the
 Secretary of Energy Bill Richardson who has made many pro-UFO disclosure messages
 over the years.
 For example, writing an afford to the book on the Roswell UFO crash when he was governor
 of New Mexico, Richardson wrote, "Clearly, it would help everybody
 if the U.S. government disclosed everything it knows.
 The American people can handle the truth no matter how bizarre or mundane.
 With full disclosure and our best scientific investigation, we should be able
 to find out what happened on that fateful day in 1947."
 Then in a question and answer while he was running for president,
 Richardson talked about his long history of attempts to get answers on UFOs.
 "I've been in government a long time.
 I've been in the cabinet.
 I've been in Congress, and I've always felt that the government doesn't tell the truth
 as much as it should on a lot of issues.
 When I was in Congress, I said to the Department of Defense, "What's the data?
 What is the data you have?"
 I was told the records were classified.
 That ticked me off.
 So I just want to put on the record that there are some people inside government
 who are actually trying to get the material out.
 [ Applause ]
 >> Ms. Howell.
 >> I was invited by Mr. Rockefeller to the Wyoming Ranch along with some
 of the people here, Stephen Greer was there, others.
 And what links in my mind was a discussion that I had with then John Mack,
 MD, psychiatrist from Harvard University who had taken a great interest
 in the abduction syndrome both as a psychiatrist and then as somebody who was trying
 to understand as I and others were.
 What is the true nature of an advanced intelligence that would be interacting
 with this planet and may not itself, the prime intelligence, be the actor here,
 but making various kinds of cloned entities that would interact on this particular planet
 in this particular atmosphere, this particular gravity and this particular solar system?
 And Dr. Mack and I at Mr. Rockefeller's place in Wyoming were discussing this
 and we went into the issue of why is it that the non-human intelligence as described
 in the human abduction syndrome appears to be 100% telepathic with the ability
 to both place impressions in human minds and to also project three dimensional holograms
 that the human mind and I cannot distinguish from the world around us.
 This is something that he, I and many others had encountered and the more deeper you get
 into this field the more you realize that our reality can be manipulated through our minds
 without us being able to tell the difference at times.
 And this led to a discussion which at the time I had only shared with Dr. Mack,
 God rest him wherever he is now, that very year I had a face to face with a man
 who was currently working in the United States military who had been aware of my work
 and by that '92, '93 time period I had produced the book
 in Alien Harvest as well as TV productions.
 And in the whole question of why would something advanced from someplace else
 in the universe be mutilating animals on this planet, this man was trying to tell me
 that there is a survival issue as well as a cloning issue in what we are dealing with
 and that genetic material has been harvested from this planet for a long time to create containers.
 And this in discussion with Dr. Mack led to, I thought I would share this today to show you
 if this is true what I'm going to share with you, it shows how difficult it is
 for all humans to relate to any aspect of all of this.
 The military person was describing his first hand experience that occurred in 1978
 in a small town in Northern Arizona.
 He worked for a unit that would be comparable to what has been in some
 of the government documents called Moon Dust or Project Pounds.
 These are units that were put together at least as far back as right after Roswell.
 Units that would be trained to go to wherever there was a reported crash or landing
 because some of these craft have been clearly left or put down.
 And that their job would be to extract technology, the craft and the bodies.
 And that he was on one of those teams.
 And he told me that in 1978 in this town in Northern Arizona there was a flood.
 And that our military unit understood that the flood was not caused by nature
 and it was not caused by humans, it was caused by something that was
 in the category of what they called non-human.
 And that he was assigned to a group to go there to try to understand why had the water been
 released from a dam into this town by something non-human.
 And that his superior officer said we are going to communicate with
 and bring in one of the Eben's.
 And I want you to have the experience of what a telepathic download upload is.
 And he said they described exactly what would happen,
 that his superior officers would be nearby, they had done this before, it was a test.
 And that he was to stand in a particular position
 and that this non-human entity would be asked to stay on the ground
 because apparently they have the ability to neutralize gravity even in a focused way
 as an individual body that they would prefer not to walk on the ground.
 And that one of the conditions would be that the entity would approach him
 with his full knowledge and that they wanted him to have the experience
 of the telepathic communication.
 And I was telling Dr. Mack at Mr. Rockefeller's facility in Wyoming
 that he told me very honestly, he said you know I was so full of myself as a young man
 that when they were trying to warn me that I would not be prepared for what happened,
 I thought nonsense.
 But he said it's my superior officer and he said I want you to know that there will be a point
 where you are going to want to run or collapse and I'm ordering you to stand.
 And he said I thought it was so silly and then everything started to unfold
 and the being came about four feet high, he was six foot four,
 he remembered how much taller he was.
 They had told him the being would come up to about three to four feet from him
 but be very low and they told him all controlled,
 that the being would simply raise its head and when the eyes connected with his eyes,
 he would no longer be in control of his mind.
 He thought all of it was nonsense and then the being's head started to rise
 and he said Linda imagine having seven feature films with sound, with touch, with heat,
 with every sensation that we know and more and over all of the seven films running
 in your mind are gold three-dimensional symbols.
 And he said I remember that my knees began to shake and buckled and I knew
 that I was fainting and men caught him and he said they put me on a cot
 and they left me there for three hours and when I woke up,
 if God himself had asked me what had been communicated in those seven films,
 I would not know.
 He said my superior officer told me later every human thinking
 about extraterrestrial biological entities and the whole issue of us not being alone
 in the universe and the wonder of being able to travel the universe
 and to communicate with non-humans, we would like to do it over coffee
 and he said it isn't going to happen because what happens
 when their minds telepathically download to our minds,
 they are uploading every single thing we've ever experienced or thought from our minds
 and that the end result often is information is added by the non-humans
 into the human mind that has had this experience but then we live on a planet
 where our fellow humans cannot even hear what uploaded downloaded information
 from non-humans might be because we have taken the position as odd as it is
 that we are alone in the universe and this does not exist and Dr. Mack,
 after I told him that story, he looked at me and he said, you know Linda,
 I agree I think we are dealing with extraterrestrial biological entities
 in some cases but he said, you know, I think that it's too complex
 that it must involve time travelers, other dimensions and that we are truly
 like little infants approaching something that is beyond our understanding
 and I will just close exactly on that note with another man who died not long
 after I was able to talk with him somewhere like around 1992.
 He also served in the military high ranking.
 Some people had sought me out because he wanted to ask me a question
 about some of my work and I will never forget he said,
 Linda this is all so strange and it has been so strange to all of us
 that have been exposed to it for so long that not any of us ever want to take it home
 to our spouses, our children or anyone we know,
 not because it's threatening necessarily but because nobody knows how
 to have the discussion and today we are meeting at the National Press Club
 in Washington where there have been various revolutions before and it seems
 to me no matter how strange it is, if we don't get past this point
 of having our government built on 60 years of lies to protect us,
 the nation probably will implode and I think you know what I mean.
 >> Thank you.
 [ Applause ]
 >> Dr. Greer.
 >> Well on that note, it reminds me of a conversation I had with some people
 at the CIA and there's a term that's used there and you'll forgive my vernacular
 where much of this subject is referred to as WSFM, sounds like a radio station,
 it means weird science and fricking magic and that is the term that's used at the CIA
 and other places to describe some of this and I think that what we have to understand is
 that if you're dealing with and I do want to go into this because this is part
 of the summary and brief I provided for in the Obama briefing and elsewhere,
 if you're dealing with civilizations that are 10 to the 6th to 10 to the 7th years,
 hundreds of thousands to millions of years, technologically more developed
 than we are, every manifestation of their technology would look like magic to us.
 For example, if you were to go back to the time of Thomas Jefferson and show them an iPhone
 or worse to say in Massachusetts, you'd be burned at the stake as a witch
 because everything would be absolutely look like magic.
 So I think that we have to have a certain amount of humility in realizing
 that we're dealing with a universe that is vast and infinite, that in our own galaxy alone,
 which has 100 billion star systems, the same number of stars as we have neurons
 in our brain interestingly, that we're dealing with civilizations just in our own galaxy
 which is one of billions that are able to go through interstellar space.
 Now I want to touch on this for a moment because it deals with a little bit
 that Linda referred to in terms of trans-dimensional or other dimensions
 and the technologies and the sciences dealing with this subject are what we have termed
 trans-dimensional interstellar, TDIs and this refers to very advanced sciences
 and technologies where there is a nexus between electromagnetism in the magnetic field,
 gravitational forces in three-dimensional space and time and what Dr. John at Princeton
 in the engineering lab began to prove is the science of consciousness
 which was actually an issue that I did talk a fair amount with Lawrence Rockefeller about.
 Now a lot of people say well this gets into the deep end of the pool very quickly
 and in fact it does but I think that it's important to understand that if you're dealing
 with civilizations that have gotten here and that's what we're dealing with,
 you're not dealing with something that can go just straight through space at the speed
 of light even because the speed of light is too slow.
 And I remember when I was having dinner with CIA Director Wolsey and his wife
 and actually the really most insightful question came from Dr. Wolsey
 who at the time was Chief Operating Officer of the National Academy of Sciences
 and she said what I want to know is how are these civilizations communicating
 across the vastness of space because your cell phone
 and radio waves are going at the speed of light and I said yes that's just too slow,
 speed of light is way too slow.
 And I had to, I had a gut check, I said do I tell her the truth and lose all credibility
 as a scientist and a doctor or do I tell her something that sounds scientific
 but that's really not true and ever since then I have vowed
 that if someone is intelligent enough to ask the question I will provide the answers truthfully
 as I can so I turned to her and I said well Dr. Wolsey it's like this,
 it turns out thinking is the best way to travel and the speed of thought is not quantifiable.
 However, when you start getting into the new physics that have been done
 where you have the ability to teleport across vast distances instantly
 and this has been done with particles but we're talking about civilizations that can do it
 with entire spacecraft and occupants, you're dealing with an entirely new physics
 but their communication devices and their own innate abilities allow for thought actuated events
 and I know Dr. Wood may mention this and that he discovered when he was doing some work
 for Old Mac McDonald and McDonald Douglas that he looked into some cases where in some meetings
 with these ETs involved a little box and there was a direct thought communication
 but it was also being facilitated through electronics and this is something
 that we call technology assisted consciousness and thought and this is a very specific area
 of study that I really devoted about 22 years to which may be beyond the scope of this hearing
 but I think that in terms of just bringing this issue around there are so many aspects of it
 that are very exciting from the point of view of science, technology
 and understanding the universe and ourselves and also who are we and where did we come from
 and how is it that we exist in this cosmos and I agree with Edgar Mitchell on this
 that is a conscious quantum hologram that is awake and that we are all part of
 and that mind itself is the ultimate final frontier not space but consciousness in mind.
 Now I know that Lawrence Rockefeller was very interested in these things
 because I had conversations with him also but one of the things that I found when I was working
 with these folks is that there's a saying in American business everyone wants to be first
 to be second and so in this case there's so many people who have had an interest of this
 but they want to hold back and not speak the whole truth about it but I think we need
 to be able to liberate ourselves to speak the truth and it involves many,
 many complex issues part of which has been touched on in the last 15 or 20 minutes.
 One thing I also want to point out is that if we're being visited by advanced civilizations
 and it's our assessment that certainly we are, who is handling that relationship?
 Do we cede that management to the military industrial complex
 and what are the consequences of doing so?
 Think about this very carefully.
 I remember doing a meeting with the Boutrous Golly family, the UN Secretary General,
 his wife Leah Golly and we were talking about this and Leah Golly turned to me
 and she said, "Dr. Grier, we need you to do this now."
 I said, "I'm a country doctor in North Carolina rattling around in an emergency department.
 You're the head of the world."
 She says, "No, we can't.
 It's too dangerous for Boutrous."
 I'm quoting and then I remember talking to this wonderful Senator Claiborne Pell
 who was mentioned earlier and I was speaking with him and I would never have gone to college
 if not for a Pell Grant because I was very, very, very poor.
 I grew up in North Carolina, I had no resources, put myself through the last years of high school
 and college and med school, but I mean really poor.
 And what I-- most people don't know that, but what I found when I was talking to Senator Pell
 who was chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and I was at a meeting with Edgar Mitchell
 and some other folks and I looked at him and he said, "Dr. Grier,
 I have never been given any information on this even though I have inquired
 through any official channels."
 And I said, "Yes, sir.
 What a shame because you, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
 have been denied the responsibility of dealing with the ultimate foreign relations issue."
 And I pointed to the stars above our heads and he looked at me through those hornwim grasses
 and said, "Well, you know, Dr. Grier, you may be right."
 I said, "Well, I am."
 And I said, "Well, what a shame."
 So I think this is another dimension.
 There's a science and technology part of it, but there's the part of it about relationships
 and we are not alone in the universe and we need to have a situation on this planet
 where our higher nature, our better angels, folks like Senator Pell and others
 who would approach this in an enlightened way could reach out
 and form what has begun to be discussed in the French government that I referred
 to earlier in this Ministry of Defense memo to me, a peaceful, interplanetary,
 interstellar diplomatic initiative.
 And to be honest with you, that's how I first got involved with this,
 was to establish such an effort, which we are doing as a citizen's diplomatic effort.
 But in the meanwhile, I got diverted into this morass of the national security state
 because I felt that our leaders need to know and more importantly, the public need to know.
 And we need to then figure out how we're going to advance.
 And in the summary I did for the president, there are a number of action points.
 And one of them is to appoint internationally a high level committee of folks who could go out
 and make a peaceful contact that is not militarized, that is not covert,
 that is not being run by the national security state, but is being done on behalf of all
 of us, the children of earth.
 [ Applause ]
 >> Okay. Mr. Bartlett.
 >> Thank you very much.
 Appreciate your testimony very much.
 We have a free press, so-called free press.
 >> Theoretically, yes.
 There are advantages and disadvantages of a free press.
 They reported the Boston bombing.
 There will very likely be copycat things because that was reported.
 Where the press is controlled that would not be reported, so there would be no copycat.
 So there are some disadvantages to a free press.
 Where is the press in all of this?
 If in fact there is a story to be told here, why isn't the press telling that story?
 If there is a cover-up, do they not seem to be complicit in that cover-up?
 >> Yes. Well, can I comment on that?
 >> By control from above.
 >> I think this is a really central issue.
 And I actually, over my 22 years of being deeply involved with this at various levels,
 I have concluded that the secrecy is very much involving the fact
 that on certain issues we do not have a free press anymore than we have a free market economy.
 And I think that this is a serious problem.
 And I have a document that will be in the materials that I'm providing for the committee
 that is a 1991 CIA document where it talks about the fact that they have folks
 at all the major media outlets, wire services, news magazines, television networks to change,
 alter, or delay and stop stories that they would like to see stopped.
 Now this was released briefly and then reclassified.
 It was under the first President Bush term.
 And this is not a contested CIA document.
 What that means is that on certain issues this will be absolutely, there will be an intervention.
 And we saw this happen with the 2001 event at this national press club disclosure launch 12 years ago,
 almost today, on May 9th of 2001.
 And one of the people I dealt with, Bob Schwartz, who was on the board of Time Life
 that later became AOL, Time Warner, and CNN, the whole conglomerate,
 he told me that he was very good friends with Mike Wallace.
 And he had given him a lot of these documents that we had.
 And Mike Wallace wanted to do the story at 60 Minutes.
 And the corporate CBS, and I think at the time it was controlled by Westinghouse,
 a big defense contractor, did not permit him to do the story.
 Ira Rosen, who was at ABC News executive producer for 2020 and Primetime Live,
 he came to my home in Virginia out near Thomas Jefferson's home, ironically.
 And I gave him 35 digital hours of top secret witness testimony and many documents.
 And he said, "This, if true, is the biggest story ever.
 I want to do this story."
 I said, "Well, I'll cooperate fully."
 He had gotten his Emmy working with Mike Wallace at 60 Minutes where he has returned.
 And I said, "I don't think you'll be allowed to do this story."
 And Ira Rosen said, "Oh, yes.
 I'm the executive producer of these shows.
 I can do it."
 And I said, "Okay." Well, two weeks later, he called me up.
 And he said, "Dr. Greer, they won't let me do this story."
 I said, "Ira, who are they?"
 And he said, "Dr. Greer, you know who they are."
 Now, I could tell you probably 100 stories like that.
 And this becomes very worrisome.
 Here we are in the National Press Club.
 And we have a lot of enormously important information.
 And, you know, in the New York Times, if you have three confirmed sources
 for a controversial story, they can run with it.
 Here, the Disclosure Project, which I founded some years ago,
 it was first Project Starlight when I began to work with Lawrence Rockefeller.
 We now have over 500.
 Many of them, I have the names of them and they can be subpoenaed.
 Some of them, about 100 of them, we have on digital videotape.
 Why isn't this a story?
 And I think that this becomes a very important question in a democracy.
 You know, if you have the larger media not covering something
 that 50, 60 percent of the public believe is true,
 and there's an enormous amount of data, 4,000 landing cases.
 The Comita Report, where they documented the landing in Provence of a craft,
 the Bentwaters case, where a craft landed at RAF Bentwaters
 and left physical trace that has been confirmed by the Ministry of Defense.
 We have all this hard data and information.
 We have radar traces of these objects moving.
 We have pilot cases.
 We have over 3,500 pilot reports in our archives.
 This isn't a story.
 How can that be?
 Now, there's another reason, the ha-ha factor.
 I have met with so many senior people in government who say,
 "I am so interested in this, but don't let anyone know that I'm interested."
 And the reason for it, I think, you know, you could be gay and have five wives
 and do whatever, I mean, you could do anything and be out of the closet on it,
 and it would be no problem, but this subject, whoa, watch out,
 because your career is on the line, as mine was.
 Okay. Now, I think that what you find is that the social opprobrium,
 the appropriate term, attached to this issue was launched in 1953.
 We have a CIA document that describes their attempts to debunk
 and ridicule the subject, but also, very important, to engage Disney studios
 to make cartoons and movies about it that would marginalize the subject.
 This is a CIA document, little green men, ha-ha-ha-ha-ha.
 So that has worked, and there's an Air Force major, George Filer, who I know,
 he may be here, who said, "Look, the secrecy really has been created mainly
 through the force of just ridicule.
 People don't want to be made a laughing stock."
 And I think that fear of ridicule by one's peerage, whether you're a senator
 or a doctor or a university professor, is a very hard thing
 to overcome once the counterintelligence people have done their business,
 and they have on this, and it is propaganda.
 There is very serious information in intelligence, and I think that we have
 to figure out how do we get around the truth embargo, as Steve calls it.
 In reality, we're sort of in, it's not just the government doing the embargo,
 it's we are doing the embargo because we have been brainwashed to laugh
 at this issue instead of look at it in a very serious, scientific,
 in-depth, and honest and truthful way.
 [ Applause ]
 >> So time keep, how much more time does Mr. Bartlett have?
 >> Three minutes.
 >> Thank you very much.
 I would think that the main reason the press is not covering is a ridicule thing.
 We've been watching the tweets and what's going on today.
 They're not all positive.
 They're not as negative as we thought they might be,
 but they're not all positive tweets.
 >> Can I make a comment on this?
 >> I wanted to turn for just a moment, go ahead.
 >> Yeah, I just want to comment on this because I've had some involvement with this.
 As I mentioned in my statement, Bill Clinton asked Webster Hubbell to go
 and get the answer to who killed JFK, and if you go to the files that have been recovered,
 there's like 5,000, almost 6,000 pages of Kennedy assassination stuff
 that the Clintons did uncover, and he asked them to uncover JFK and UFOs.
 When that book was released, "Friends in High Places" by Hubbell in 1997, that, of course,
 the very next day in the White House press briefing, his question was brought up,
 and it was Deborah Oren, who was no friend of the Clintons from "New York Post"
 who asked the question.
 She asked the president's press secretary,
 "Can you tell me did Webster Hubbell get the job to go out and look at UFOs?"
 And he walked around the question the first time, and Deborah Oren
 in an interview said she came back with a follow-up question, and she said,
 "I'd like to know is what Mr. Hubbell writes in his book true?"
 And the press secretary for the president said, "I'm not going
 to comment what people write in their personal books."
 And Deborah Oren said in an interview later, she said, "I sat there and waited
 for someone to follow up on this very important question,
 and the rest of the White House press corps rolled over and played dead."
 And basically what it comes down to is if you worked your way up to the White House,
 you don't want to be the one that asked the stupid UFO question.
 You want to ask something very smart because you may end up losing your job.
 You worked your way up there.
 So a lot of it does have to do with the ridicule, and a lot of it has to do
 with I mentioned Chase Brandon who was this 42-year CIA guy.
 He writes a fictional book about Roswell, and there was one of the stories
 that we'd always tried to track in the UFO world, and that was by Richard Helms.
 It was a statement where Richard Helms says, "We control all the media
 of any consequence in America."
 And we were trying to track this, and if you look in Chase Brandon's book,
 his character in the book actually uses this statement.
 Jesse Helms said, "We control all media of any consequence in America,"
 and the character says, "I wish he hadn't said that."
 >> Thank you.
 I go back.
 >> Thank you.
 Senator Gravel.
 >> Can you come to any other conclusion as a body
 that our nation is essentially ruled by a military junta?
 Can you come to any other conclusion based upon all the statements that have been made?
 >> Well, I think, yeah, I think it's not just military.
 I think it's a large macroeconomic and financial system.
 So it's the military, industrial, corporate, financial complex,
 and I'm not against corporations.
 However, as Jefferson said, the unchecked power of a corporation.
 And see, if our budget is $3.8 trillion, but we're talking about something
 that if it's disclosed would threaten the privately owned interest in the oil, gas,
 coal, utility industries that are estimated in the multi-hundred trillions of dollars,
 what tail is wagging the dog of our democracy?
 And that's the big question.
 >> Let me add to that.
 I came across a study two years ago in Switzerland, Zurich,
 where an institute studied the interlocking directorates, 43,000 corporations.
 They winnowed it down to 1,350 corporations.
 And these are interlocking directorates, interlocking family ties.
 And primarily the top 10 were banks, international banks.
 And they own 60% of the wealth of the world.
 >> Correct.
 >> You're aware of that?
 >> Yes, I'm very aware of that study, yes.
 >> Congresswoman Kilpatrick.
 >> Thank you.
 This has been an absolutely awesome day.
 The professional testimony that we've heard, awesome.
 Everything that you've said here, this congressperson knows it to be true from things
 that we've done in our own lives.
 President and the military is always a friction there.
 Governors and their state and military or police troops, it's a little friction.
 Mayors and their police force, it's a little something there.
 Who has the power?
 I think that's an inherent something that our world witnesses,
 and I certainly have over my 60 plus years of life.
 I think it's important that we work with the foreign governments.
 There's been 10 or 15 already identified who have acknowledged this existence.
 I want to be a part of that.
 I want to go, I want to see, I want to -- all of that.
 And I'm presenting myself for that because I want to do that.
 [ Applause ]
 The public-private partnerships that I mentioned earlier today got to do it.
 Once upon a time, this country had horse and buggies.
 We moved to cars, and now it's moving to something else.
 There were no emails and computers and all of that two decades ago.
 I mean, evolving.
 When you talk about oil, gas, and coal, yeah, that's the money, and it's about money and power.
 But who's to say you can't transition that to what we're talking about here today
 with the kind of partnerships that we have to build in order to do that?
 So we phase out of oil, gas, and coal, and we're doing it already, but we're just not.
 I don't think this issue is now that I've sat here all day is separate from it.
 I'm sure I'll know more about this by the Friday.
 But I think we have to look at it in terms
 of a comprehensive something that's related rather than separate from.
 The things that you all have testified today, and I know them to be true.
 I don't even know people who have had this.
 And in the last month since they found out I'm on it,
 I get all kind of things from around the world.
 I'm happy you're going to be listening, and I'm happy that I am listening.
 But I want us to consider who that public private doctor for exactly Dr. Greer.
 Excellent information, all of that.
 Got to be funded.
 I do money.
 That's what I've done in my career.
 I don't have any, but I mean, that's where I work.
 That's where I work.
 But we can do this.
 I mean, we can do that with--
 if we broaden our scope, it's not us and they, or them and us.
 It's us, or there's nothing.
 I think it's that important, and I don't have the answer for it now.
 I just know that there's something here that we've touched on,
 at least in my little experience in these eight hours.
 It's something to build on, and I want us to consider that.
 The military industrial financial complex is real.
 It's real.
 I mean, and everyone knows it.
 It's a real entity, and it really directs our world in the various countries.
 I can't speak for them.
 I can speak for US.
 And it's real.
 Not to be thrown stones at, but to work with.
 And I think when we bring them in as partners,
 because actually the complex has more power than the president.
 I'm sorry.
 I hate to just put that on record.
 The president-- not the person, but the office is what I speak.
 That when we deal with it as, again, as a whole thing,
 and not us over here and them over there, we can do this, Stephen.
 It's just going to take, I think, an international coalition that
 would help-- someone just said it-- help bring us to where we want to go
 to do some of the things that we need to do.
 And then, finally for me, the Military Intelligence Committee,
 we have to have that.
 And it exists.
 And we've always thought that it helps us do a lot of things,
 like Boston most recently, and as big as Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan,
 and all have been all over the world in this job of mine,
 but I haven't in this capacity.
 I'm offering myself for that.
 I see that we can get to this.
 This was a brilliant way to start it, Stephen,
 and build on what you guys have already done
 for these last 50-plus years.
 This is the 21st century.
 The 20th century is over.
 It's about coalitions and partnerships.
 And it's an international one that will save our world and our country.
 So to all of you there, I always say the woman,
 she brings a whole other perspective here.
 Thank you, without notes and all of that.
 If you harm God's animals, and something does from time to time,
 as you just described, in a way that we know nothing of,
 or there's no blood or other liquids, fluids,
 that's something that I believe, too, and I'm going to end on this.
 I don't have a question.
 I'm making my final statement of the day.
 If you talk about everything we've talked about today,
 and this is just day one.
 I can't even imagine what we're going to do the rest of the week.
 But the hurricanes, tornadoes, fires, winds,
 I'm a biblical person.
 I believe it's biblical.
 I believe that everything that's going on, what we're talking about now,
 and the power that might be out there, that we, they,
 are scared it's going to overtake us.
 It won't overtake us, because we're going to work with it.
 We're going to build a partnership.
 And the sooner that we get it done, the safer our children will be,
 the more protected our seniors will be who built these great countries,
 and the international connection is what we must do.
 So for all of you today who've come before us and become, for me specifically,
 I just want to say thank you.
 It's not the end, it's just the beginning.
 Thank you very much.
 [ Applause ]
 Congressman Cook.
 >> I do want to say that I've been most interested
 in your references to Bill Richardson.
 Now, I may not be a member of their party.
 I may be a member of a party that's opposed them on many, many things,
 but I have never known a more intelligent, and honest,
 and deeply committed members of the government, members of the administrations,
 and in many, in Congress and everything else, as they, and in cabinet positions
 that I think they held, plus were almost going to be holding.
 So I, and I've been deeply impressed as I've known, even before today,
 before what you said, Stephen, that these people have been particularly prominent
 in wanting to end what you called the truth embargo.
 Certainly, Richardson has made statements that he says, hey, definitely,
 just to have somebody of his stature say that something landed in Roswell,
 and we need to have those files.
 The reason I'm putting that back under this question is because I can already tell,
 especially from our luncheon discussion as former members of the Congress,
 that there seems to be developing a consensus that whatever we think
 of the evidence at this point, we think there needs to be hearings,
 and there needs to be official hearings.
 Again, I'm, I'm impressed that the attorney, I forget his name right now.
 >> Daniel Sheen.
 >> Yes. But although he called for UA hearings initially, he kind of just was talking
 as his last statement that we need congressional hearings.
 Now, I don't know whether this group, this panel should be focusing on members
 of the Congress to do something or members of the administration to do something,
 and I also, or maybe both, I shouldn't use the expression rats chasing rats,
 but maybe that's not such a bad example.
 >> Well, it's a little bit, but you know, here's the nice thing about the new media.
 We have a world now where we can stream.
 The Huffington Post, okay, the Huffington Post did an article about the film Sirius
 that's just been released that's based on our work.
 It had like 4 million people look at it.
 I think that we can do a lot that we couldn't have done 12 years ago, 5 years ago
 with the new media and the people's media.
 That's one thing.
 The other is that I would, I want to put out a call for other witnesses
 from inside the military, intelligence, and corporate world to come forward,
 but who will come forward, rank, serial number, name, actionable intelligence.
 One thing I want to comment on, there is a confusion that's been
 in the room a little bit today between access and control.
 Now, I just want to say that I have been able to provide actionable intelligence
 to where there would be access, but you don't necessarily have control,
 and I think we have to understand the difference for the president and for even some
 of these senior military officials that I've met with and continue to meet with.
 There is a huge problem there, and this is something that does need to be fixed.
 The media is one part, the public is one part.
 I think we have to get all these components going, but something that needs to be looked
 at from a constitutional and national security point of view is
 that you cannot have information like this being withheld from the commander in chief
 and senior people like the Defense Intelligence Agency head or the CIA director,
 which we know is going on.
 And I think that if we cannot fix that, our democracy is in danger, but so is our world.
 Thank you.
 [ Applause ]
 >> Okay, our cleanup batter is Congresswoman Houli.
 >> Well, I'm going to follow up on the question, what you just said, Mr. Greer,
 and that is you talk about access, talk about control.
 How do we, all of us, change that around so that the president feels in control or the person
 that heads up an agency feels in control?
 Give me some of your suggestions.
 >> Well, you know, one of the most poignant things that happened some years ago
 when I was wrapping up my almost three-hour meeting with the CIA director was
 that I gave him something very much like this that has a bunch of recommendations
 for executive action, executive orders, and he looked at me squarely in the eyes,
 and he said, "Dr. Greer, how do we disclose that which we don't have control over?"
 And I said, "You get control over it."
 Now, you have to, I hate to use the term, lean into it and lean into it hard.
 I mean, the powers of the Congress and the powers of the presidency
 and the courts are substantial, and I think that if they are then denied access control
 over projects that we can prove are going on, that there should be serious consequences
 to that because that is treason.
 And I think that the other point is that the public have to demand this level of transparency,
 which, and then ultimately, there needs to be a level of compassion for those who are trapped
 in a system that they are terrified to take on, and I think that this is why there has
 to also be a level of protection for people who want to step forward, who are deep insiders.
 I mean, I would love to give a list of names of folks that I have met with in very high
 and deep positions, but they've asked me not to.
 I recently put on YouTube the testimony of a man who had worked with the CIA
 who would not let me release it until he died, and it's up there now, palette, go look at it.
 I think that it deals with something you'll hear about later, implants,
 which were actually developed by the CIA in the '70s and '80s.
 My point is that we have to also understand that many of these men and women
 who come forward are enormously courageous, but there are many others who would like to,
 but they can't just do it in some kind of a circus.
 They also have to be assured of their protection and their safety.
 >> And I can address the whole intimidation issue from something that happened.
 People are so afraid for their lives, their families, because they have had
 to sign non-disclosure agreements in which they basically are told if you say anything
 to anyone, your family will suffer because you will not only be put in prison,
 but all benefits will be denied your family.
 I've talked with several people who have signed such disclosure agreements that are working
 on some capacity in the extraterrestrial issue.
 And this really came home to me, probably this was back around 1985, '86.
 A security guard at Lockheed Martin in the facility in Denver had approached me
 because she had read my book, my first book, An Alien Harvest.
 And she had asked for an autograph at some place where I was speaking.
 And she volunteered, she said if you need any help with anything, I'll help you.
 And she began to do some filing and various things.
 And she was very, I guess you would say she was,
 she felt that An Alien Harvest was a book that should be out there in the world.
 And one day she told me, she had a friend working inside of Lockheed Martin in a position
 that was related to something that they were doing in aerospace, but it was classified.
 It was one of those office complexes where you had to have the need to know in order
 to enter or the red and the blue lights would spin.
 And she invited him as a friend to go out to dinner or something.
 And he said, why don't you come over for, we're having a birthday party next weekend.
 So this is somebody who has a confidential position and now she's going to the house.
 And she said, I just thought your book would be the most perfect gift.
 And she said, I presented your book and he took it and he looked at it and he spun
 through the pages as if he already knew and he dropped it on the floor and said,
 take this from this house, put it in your car and don't ever talk with me about this again.
 And she was shocked because she didn't know that the classified area must have had something very
 intimately to do with the subjects in an alien harvest, which was about animal mutilations,
 extraterrestrials, law enforcement and medical research in something that the government denies.
 And that is happening in so many ways where people become so intimidated
 that they will not even accept the book.
 >> I think I'm okay.
 >> Thank you.
 [ Applause ]
 >> So this is the close of day one.
 We have four more days.
 And I want to compliment all of you out there in the audience.
 I guess your audience, your participants as far as I can tell.
 And you stayed all day.
 And I hope you're here all the way through Friday because you are amazing.
 And our witnesses have been great.
 [ Applause ]
